--- CHUNK 1 ---
1 
COLLEGE HANDBOOK 
2024 - 2025
ST JOSEPH ENGINEERING COLLEGE
AN AUTONOMOUS INSTITUTION
Vamanjoor, Mangaluru - 575028
4 
The College Crest depicts St Joseph, foster father of Jesus. By his willingness to look 
after Jesus, he set an example of self-negating service and obedience. As a professional 
carpenter, he set an example of hard work. He trained Jesus to build a sound physique to 
prepare him for the rigours of his public ministry, leading, to his death on the cross.
The College desires t

--- CHUNK 2 ---
hat students of St Joseph Engineering College imbibe the quality of 
his refined service and excel in academic life.
The College is affiliated to Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), Belagavi. It has 
the approval of All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), New Delhi. Seven of 
our programmes, namely Electronics & Communication Engineering, Computer Science 
& Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical & Electronics Engineering, Civil 
Engineering, Master of Business Admin

--- CHUNK 3 ---
istration & Master of Computer Applications are 
accredited by National Board of Accreditation, New Delhi.
IDENTITY CARD
Bonafide students of the College are issued identity cards. Every student must carry the 
identity card on his/her person and produce it whenever an Officer of the College demands.
IMPORTANT INFORMATION
Website  : www.sjec.ac.in
E-mail  : sjec@sjec.ac.in
EP BAX  : 2263753, 54, 55, 56 / 2263951, 52, 2868100
Director  : 2263065(Off/Res)
Assistant Director  : 2263960 (Off & Res)


--- CHUNK 4 ---
Principal  : 2263732(Off), 96633 80761
Admission Office  : 9972932972 / 9972695974
Gents Hostel  : 2868130 (Day) / 2263753 (Night line)
Ladies hostel  : 2868160 (Day line) / 2263754 (Night line)
Punjab National Bank  : 0824 - 2263500
Central Computer Centre  : Extension 132
Library  : Extension 105
Maintenance  : 8971035380, Extension 111
Dispensary  : Extension 170
Counselor  : Extension 164
Placement  : Extension 124 / 9008752809
PRO  : Extension 163
Transport  : 9241231211 / 92438 04479
PLEAS

--- CHUNK 5 ---
E NOTE
The material presented in this calendar is for preliminary information, and its correctness 
should be verified in the appropriate sections. The material presented here cannot be 
evidence in a court of law. The Government, the University and the College Authorities 
may lawfully change specific provisions whenever necessary. Please make appropriate 
enquiries.
5 
PERSONAL DETAILS
Student’s Name ..............................................................................................

--- CHUNK 6 ---
................
Class ............................. Batch ....................... USN . ....................................................
Father’s Name ...............................................................................................................
Telephone No. 
Mobile phone No.
Mother’s Name ..............................................................................................................
Telephone No.
Mobile phone No.
Hostel Block ...............................

--- CHUNK 7 ---
......................... Room No. ........................................
Permanent Address  .......................................................................................................
........................................................................................................................................
............................................................................  Pincode
Local Guardian, if any........................................................

--- CHUNK 8 ---
............................................
Address ..........................................................................................................................
........................................................................................................................................
Name of Class Advisor/mentor ......................................................................................
Blood Group .....................  Mobile No.
Health Card details: No. 

--- CHUNK 9 ---
....................................Valid upto ...........................................
Issued by ........................................................................................................................
Contact Tel Number (for emergency)6 
MOTTO
Service and Excellence
VISION
To be a global premier Institution of professional education and research
MISSION
l Provide opportunities to deserving students of all communities, the Christian 
students in particular, for quality profes

--- CHUNK 10 ---
sional education
l Design and deliver curricula to meet the national and global changing needs 
through student-centric learning methodologies
l Attract, nurture and retain the best faculty and technical manpower
l Consolidate the state-of-art infrastructure and equipment for teaching and research 
activities
l Promote all-round personality development of the students through interaction 
with alumni, academia and industry
l Strengthen the Educational Social Responsibilities (ESR) of the Institu

--- CHUNK 11 ---
tion7 
ST JOSEPH ENGINEERING COLLEGE
Mangaluru- 575028
Accreditation Status   
National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) has awarded accreditation 
to the institution with A+ Grade for five years till 22 February 2026 with a Cumulative 
Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 3.39 on a 4-point scale in its first cycle.
National Board of Accreditation (NBA) has accredited the following programmes of 
the institution:
Sl No. Name of the 
Programmes (UG/PG)
Basis of 
Evaluation
Accreditation 
Stat

--- CHUNK 12 ---
us Period of Validity
1. Computer Science & 
Engineering
Tier – II 
June 2015 
Document
Accredited
Academic Years 
2022-2023 to 
2024-2025 i.e. up 
to 30.06.2025
2. Electrical & Electronics 
Engineering
3.
Electronics & 
Communication 
Engineering
4. Mechanical 
Engineering
5. Civil Engineering
Academic Years 
2024-2025 to 
2026-2027 i.e. up 
to 30.06.2027
6. Master of Business 
Administration
July 2017 
Document
Academic Years 
2021-2022 to 
2023-2024 i.e. up 
to 30.06.2024
7. Master of Compute

--- CHUNK 13 ---
r 
Application
Tier – II 
January 2013 
Document
Academic Years 
2024-2025 to 
2025-2026 i.e. up 
to 30.06.20268 
AUTONOMY AND ACCREDITATION
St Joseph Engineering College (SJEC) is an Autonomous Institute under Visvesvaraya 
Technological University (VTU), Belagavi, Karnataka State, and is recognized by the 
All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), New Delhi. SJEC is registered 
under the trust “Diocese of Mangalore, Social Action Department”.
The SJEC has been conferred Fresh Autonomo

--- CHUNK 14 ---
us Status from the Academic Year 
2021-22. The college was granted autonomy by the University Grants Commission 
(UGC) under the UGC Scheme for Autonomous Colleges 2018 and conferred by 
VTU. The UGC Expert Team visited the college on 28-29 November 2021 and 
rigorously assessed the college on multiple parameters. The fact that only a handful of 
engineering colleges in the state have attained Autonomous Status adds to the college’s 
credibility that has been on a constant upswing. Autonomy will

--- CHUNK 15 ---
 make it convenient 
for the college to design curricula by recognizing the needs of the industry, offering 
elective courses of choice, and conducting the continuous assessment of its students.
At SJEC, the Outcome-Based Education (OBE) system has been implemented since 
2011. Owing to OBE practiced at the college, SJEC has already been accredited by the 
National Board of Accreditation (NBA). Five of the UG programs, namely Computer 
Science & Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electronics a

--- CHUNK 16 ---
nd Communication 
Engineering, Electrical & Electronics Engineering and Civil Engineering and MBA 
& MCA programs, have accreditation from the NBA.
Also, SJEC has been awarded the prestigious A+ grade by the National Assessment 
and Accreditation Council (NAAC) for five years. With a Cumulative Grade Point 
Average (CGPA) of 3.39 on a 4-point scale, SJEC has joined the elite list of colleges 
accredited with an A+ grade by NAAC in its first cycle. The fact that only 5 per cent of 
the Higher Edu

--- CHUNK 17 ---
cation Institutions in India have bagged A+ or higher grades by NAAC 
adds to the college’s credibility that has been on a constant upswing.
The college is committed to offering quality education to all its students, and the 
accreditation by NAAC and NBA reassures this fact. True to its motto of “Service 
and Excellence”, the college’s hard work has resulted in getting this recognition, 
which has endorsed the academic framework and policies that the college has been 
practicing since its incep

--- CHUNK 18 ---
tion. The college has been leveraging a flexible choice-based 
academic model that gives students the freedom to undergo learning in respective 
disciplines and a transparent and continuous evaluation process that helps in their 
holistic development.9 
NOTE TO PARENTS CONCERNING THE  
FIRST SEMESTER
We are happy that you have admitted your child to our care. To ensure the best results, 
we request you to cooperate with the College. Kindly emphasize the importance of 
regular study habits at hom

--- CHUNK 19 ---
e or in the hostel. We would like your child to be:
1. Regular to classes and lab work.
2. Be on time. Teachers may not admit latecomers.
3. Be well organized in his/ her study habits and submit records on time.
4. Prepare well for each internal test.
5. Meet teachers regularly outside class and clarify doubts.
6. When absent, report to the concerned teacher when they come for the next class.
7. Dress decently and use the uniform for the first two years.
8. Meet the class advisors regularly.
Par

--- CHUNK 20 ---
ents are always welcome to visit the College on any day and be in touch with the 
activities. They must come personally to receive the marks card of the first internal 
assessment test. This is the first indication of the effort put in by the student. Your 
encouragement will go a long way in improving results.
Your son/daughter is assigned to a class-advisor/ mentor, a senior teacher, who will 
offer help and assistance. You may approach the class advisor/mentor for any related 
matter.
Please 

--- CHUNK 21 ---
note that VTU insists on 85% attendance. Discourage your child from being 
absent. When illness is more than 3 days, kindly send a medical certificate. However, 
loss of attendance cannot be made up by producing a medical certificate. Students 
who fall ill inside the campus will be referred to Fr Muller Medical College Hospital 
for treatment and or hospitalization if necessary.
Please visit the College website regularly, you may find the photograph of your child 
in some activity. You are warm

--- CHUNK 22 ---
ly invited to attend the College Day for which a formal 
invitation will be sent to you by post. Please do come. Kindly note that the VTU 
has banned the use of mobiles in the college campus. Many parents tell us that they 
live far away from Mangalore and desire to speak to their ward to be assured of 
their well-being. Please note that students habitually using mobiles tend to carry them 
into the examination hall, resulting in their exam being cancelled. We assure you that 
emergency calls ma

--- CHUNK 23 ---
de to the College Office, the Director, Principal and the Wardens 
will always be noted and urgent information will be communicated to the students.
 10 
Dear Students,
Welcome to St Joseph Engineering College known for quality education in 
Engineering and Technology since its inception in the year 2002. Though this College 
is a Christian Minority Institution, students of all faiths are admitted here to get trained 
professionally and develop your personality and talents. The motto of the Coll

--- CHUNK 24 ---
ege is 
Service & Excellence. Our dedicated teachers will help you to excel in your studies, 
We expect that you;
l Place emphasis on regular and diligent studies.
l Train to be creative in your response to diverse situations.
l Become committed to the profession of engineering
l Reach out to the less privileged in the society with service-mindedness
l Direct your life with genuine values.
Creative thinking, analytical skills and effective communication are the tools to serve 
and excel. Real ed

--- CHUNK 25 ---
ucation is possible only when you develop self-discipline and 
emotional balance. Look upon the different rules and regulations of the college as tools 
that help you become self-disciplined. The College chapel is a place of meditation and 
prayer. Spend a few moments in quiet solitude here, invoking God’s blessings on your 
life. Catholic students are urged to participate in the early morning services every day.
For the all-round personality development of students, the College provides forums 

--- CHUNK 26 ---

that plan extra-curricular and co-curricular activities. Through these Associations, you 
will acquire leadership, skills of dealing with others, ways to organize events, to speak 
from a platform, to communicate effectively, to sell your ideas, to evolve consensus 
and develop a robust value system.
For every 13 students, there is a trained mentor in the College. You will learn a lot 
from their experience. Please meet them regularly outside the class hours. They are 
trained to deal with stud

--- CHUNK 27 ---
ent’s personal and emotional problem. The College also has 
a counsellor to help students in psychological problems. The campus counsellor is a 
person you can rely on for solving many a problem.
You are urged to stay after class hours and spend time on the playfield or in the 
gymnasium. It is essential that you exercise your physique adequately. This is 
necessary to support the enormous intellectual work you are called upon to sustain. 
Your education here will be complete only when you take 

--- CHUNK 28 ---
full advantage of all the 
facilities we offer.
The college has gone to enormous lengths to provide you with a whole lot of facilities. 
The college Library has more than 50,000 volumes, 1,00,000 + E-books, 100+ 
National/International technical journals in print, and 23,000+ online journals.  For 
your convenience, it functions until late in the night. Internet facilities are available 
through the Wi-Fi system enabling you to get connected wherever you are on campus. 
There is also a class adv

--- CHUNK 29 ---
isor and a mentor to help a student become more effective in 
the way he/she functions and how well he/she organizes his/ her timetable.
Best of luck with your studies!11 
ANTI-RAGGING
The Government  of India has made ragging a cognizable offence punishable with 
imprisonment. The Principal is responsible for making the College ragging-free. VTU 
is keeping a strict vigil to prevent any sort of ragging. Under the direction of the 
Supreme Court of India, authorities have asked colleges to take 

--- CHUNK 30 ---
necessary measures to 
prevent ragging. Students are severely warned that
l Ragging of any kind is strictly prohibited by law inside the campus and outside.
l Offenders will be dismissed from the College and the hostel and reported to the 
police.
l Photographs of offenders will not only be displayed on the notice board but also 
published in newspapers.
l Offenders cannot appear for University Examinations.
l Names of offenders will be sent to VTU, which will record this fact in the marks 
card

--- CHUNK 31 ---
.
Please do not be misguided. There is no such thing as friendly ragging or mild ragging. 
All forms of ragging are de-humanizing and go against the core of the value system 
which our students must develop. The College will not take a lenient view of any 
offence of ragging.
The College has formed an Anti-Ragging Review Committee and Flying Squad 
to monitor Anti-Ragging activities. Apart from senior teachers and senior students 
as members, police authorities are also represented in the commit

--- CHUNK 32 ---
tee. Freshers are 
advised to make a note of their names (it is good to memorize at least a few telephone 
numbers) given in the following pages. Please do not hesitate to approach them. They 
will keep your names confidential.
Any student who becomes a victim of ragging of any kind must report to the Anti 
Ragging Committee without any fear and the College will take strict action.
DON’T BE AFRAID TO REPORT RAGGING
24 hrs Anti-ragging toll-free helplines -1800-180-5522 & 155222
The identity of t

--- CHUNK 33 ---
he student will be protected. The process of giving him assistance 
will start within 15 minutes. A complaint can be registered through email, at  
helpline@antiragging.net
Anti-Ragging Commitments: The government has made it mandatory for all students 
and their parents to submit commitments affirming that they will not involve in ragging 
in any way whatsoever. Similar commitments are to be submitted in a separate set by 
the hostelites. The Management is resolved to take all steps, as detaile

--- CHUNK 34 ---
d in the Anti-
Ragging Regulations, to curb the menace of ragging.12 
INTIMATION TO PARENTS OF SENIORS
This is to bring to your notice that there is an absolute ban on ragging in the College. 
The Supreme Court and the Govt of Karnataka prohibit any act of ragging. Exemplary 
punishment, including filing of an FIR with the police, entry of the participation of 
the crime in all certification and expulsion, will be handed out to any defaulters. Any 
student found ragging faces expulsion from the 

--- CHUNK 35 ---
College for a term (6 months), with 
payment of tuition fees for the term, and a fine of Rs. 25,000/- vacating the hostel, 
cancelling scholarships, debarring from representing Institution in tournaments, 
youth festivals etc. The onus to prove innocence will be on the one accused. UGC 
has clarified that regulations cover the entire premises of Educational Institutions, 
including canteen, playground and all means of transport for students.
We request your support in this and ask you to speak t

--- CHUNK 36 ---
o your child/ward to obey this 
ban completely.
Introduction of Choice Based Credit System (CBCS)
The CBCS has been mandated by the University Grants Commission and has been 
implemented in VTU for BE Programmes from the academic year 2015-16 onwards. 
The CBCS provides choice for students to select from the prescribed courses 
(Core, Elective and Foundation Courses). It provides for a credit system which is a 
systematic way of describing an educational programme by attaching credits to its 
co

--- CHUNK 37 ---
mponents. The definition of credits in higher education systems may be based on 
different parameters, such as student workload, learning outcomes, entrepreneurship 
skills, contact hours, innovation, creativity, talents, etc.
Essentially, this is an approach in which the students can take courses of their choice, 
learn at their own pace, undergo additional courses, acquire more than the required 
credits, and adopt an interdisciplinary approach to learning. The transformation from 
the traditi

--- CHUNK 38 ---
onal teacher-centered education to a student-centered education is the overall 
goal. CBCS provides greater flexibility with multiple exits, multiple pathways, and 
vertical mobility in the student’s journey.
The main objectives of CBCS are as follows:
l To provide broad-based education;
l To provide students with greater flexibility in the choice of courses;
l To provide students multi-disciplinary curriculum;
l To enable students to choose courses at the basic/advanced level/inter- disciplinar

--- CHUNK 39 ---
y;
l To enable students to acquire job oriented skills;
l To enable students to progress at their own pace;
l To enable highly motivated students to gain extra credits;
l To bridge the gap between professional and social exposure;
l To provide a holistic education.13 
ACCREDITATION OF ENGINEERING PROGRAMMES
What is Accreditation?
Accreditation is a process of quality assurance and improvement, whereby a 
programme in an approved Institution is critically assessed to verify that the Institution 


--- CHUNK 40 ---
or the programme continues to meet and exceed the norms and standards prescribed 
by AICTE from time to time. Currently the NBA’s assessment is Outcome- based in 
tune with international standards set by the Washington Accord.
What are the benefits of Accreditation?
The Institution, and the programmes accredited by NBA, will:
l Be identified with excellence in technical education.
l Be assured of conformity to good practices and benchmarks of global requirements.
l Be able to rate the programmes

--- CHUNK 41 ---
 on a national platform to attract better student 
intake.
l Be able to appraise its strengths and weaknesses through an informed review 
process.
l Be eligible for receiving funds from government funding agencies.
l Be able to initiate innovative and modern methods of pedagogy.
l Be an effective facilitator of human capital to world-class employers and other 
stakeholders.
What is the Washington Accord?
The Washington Accord, signed among six countries in 1989, is an International 
Agreement am

--- CHUNK 42 ---
ong bodies responsible for accrediting undergraduate engineering 
degree programmes. It recognizes the substantial equivalency of programmes 
accredited by those bodies and facilitates the mobility of engineering graduates and 
professionals at an international level. There are at present 17 Permanent Members of 
the Accord, including India, represented by the NBA.
In short, the degrees obtained by students who pass out from institutions 
accredited under the Washington Accord will be recognized

--- CHUNK 43 ---
 as equivalent to 
other degrees of member countries such as Australia, Canada, Japan, United 
Kingdom and United States. Such students will also be able to transfer additional 
credits earned in the qualifying degree to the higher degree which they might 
want to pursue in member countries.14 
What is Outcome-Based Education?
Outcome-based education (OBE) is an educational theory that bases each part 
of an educational system around goals (outcomes). By the end of the educational 
experience, e

--- CHUNK 44 ---
ach student should have achieved the goal. There is no specified teaching 
style or assessment in OBE; instead, classes, opportunities, and assessments should 
all help students achieve the specified outcomes. The role of the Faculty adapts into 
instructor, trainer, facilitator, and/or mentor based on the outcomes targeted.
Outcome-based methods have been adopted in education systems around the world, at 
multiple levels. In an international effort to accept OBE, the Washington Accord was 
crea

--- CHUNK 45 ---
ted in 1989. The Washington Accord countries accept undergraduate engineering 
degrees that were obtained using OBE methods.
In the educational context, outcomes are statements that describe significant and 
essential learning that learners have achieved, and can reliably demonstrate at the end 
of a course or program. In other words, learning outcomes identify what the learner 
will know and be able to do by the end of a course or program.
Outcome-Based Education at SJEC
At SJEC, the OBE system

--- CHUNK 46 ---
 has been implemented since 2011. It has been fine-tuned 
and institutionalized through focused policy formation and training. Five of the 
UG programs, namely Computer Science & Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, 
Electronics and Communication Engineering, Electrical & Electronics Engineering 
and Civil Engineering and MBA programs, have accreditation from the NBA.
Various committees such as Industry Alumni Advisory Board (IAAB), Internal 
Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC), Department Advisory Bo

--- CHUNK 47 ---
ard (DAB) and Program 
Assessment Committee (PAC), have been formed by drawing members from Industry, 
Alumni, Parents, Management, Faculty, Staff and Students. These committees guide 
and monitor the implementation of OBE in the college.
For more information, regarding   accreditation, outcome-based assessment and 
Washington Accord, please visit the NBA website: www.nbaind.org.
For more information on the process within SJEC, please visit our website:    
www.sjec.ac.in
Key Elements of OBE
The

--- CHUNK 48 ---
 key elements of the OBE process include Vision, Mission, Program Educational 
Objectives (PEOs), Program Outcomes (POs), and Program Specific Outcomes 
(PSOs). These have been defined for all the programs, by all the departments, and are 
presented here.15 
STUDENT MENTORING & COUNSELLING
In St Joseph Engineering College, mentoring is recognized as a strategy to help 
students achieve learning goals with emotional and instrumental support. Thus, the 
student mentoring programme incorporates the

--- CHUNK 49 ---
 support of faculty members as Mentors 
to all the students in the college. Each student is assigned a Mentor to overcome their 
hurdles to achieve the goals desired by them in their academic career.
The aim of having a counselling centre in college is to reach out to the students to 
manage their difficulties and transform personal problems into their own growth. A 
trained counsellor will help the student to explore one’s concerns, and find a way out 
of issues towards being a better functioni

--- CHUNK 50 ---
ng individual.
Objectives: 
l To help students maximize academic performance by ensuring high quality 
learning that promotes student wellness such as fitness, good health, psycho-social 
well-being and strong ethical grounding
l To ensure students continuous progress in their performance and find new ways to 
develop their potential through guidance and encouragement from mentors.
l Focus and motivate students to achieve learning goals and thereby improve their 
academic performance.
l Listen t

--- CHUNK 51 ---
o students’ issues with patience and help them solve their concerns with 
appropriate resources, support and referral available.
l Generate curiosity and interest in academics and other institutional activities 
amongst the students.
l To ensure conducive learning environments that engage and support students to 
succeed
Composition:
One faculty member from each department nominated by the HOD and a faculty 
leader nominated by the Principal.
Operation:
l The student welfare committee is activat

--- CHUNK 52 ---
ed at the beginning of each academic 
year with the Dean-Student Welfare as faculty leader and one member from each 
department as a committee member.
l Preparation of plan for student welfare activities and designated tasks of committee 
members through committee members.
l Frequency of meetings of committee members is minimum one per semester and 
whenever the need arises.16 
l Preparation of report is done at the end of the academic year and areas of strength 
and concern are identified for f

--- CHUNK 53 ---
uture action.
Standard Operating Procedure for Mentoring
1. Assignment of class advisors and mentors by head of the department 
 Each faculty is a mentor for a maximum of 15 students as assigned by the HOD.
2. A mentoring file with student details will be maintained by the mentor
 All relevant details of the student will be kept filed by the mentor for a ready 
reference.
3. Mentors meet their student mentees at least twice in a semester
 Each student will be expected to meet his/her mentor as w

--- CHUNK 54 ---
hen called and approach 
the mentor to initiate contact when required.
4. Mentors encourage students for better academic performance and overall 
development
 Mentee should share his/her ideas, concerns, and professional goals so that the 
mentor is able to place the situation in perspective
5. Mentors guide students to meet faculty of their course to approach for help if 
they have shown poor performance
 Mentee should ask direct questions about what he/she most wants to know and 
shouldn’t be 

--- CHUNK 55 ---
shy about asking. Mentee is responsible for ensuring, the conversation 
meets, his/her needs.
6. Senior level support is provided by the HOD or Dean-Student Welfare
 Students can approach the senior faculty-in-charge if there is a need to do so, when 
an issue cannot be handled by the mentor.
7. Specific cases of students who need counselling are referred by the mentor to 
the Campus Counsellor
 When a student’s issue is beyond the mentor’s ability to resolve, he/she is referred 
to a trained co

--- CHUNK 56 ---
unsellor who gives an empathetic listening to the issues presented 
by the student, and works along with student to achieve the goal.
Standard Operating Procedure for Counselling
1. Recognition of the need for counselling
l Students who have a consistent record of under-achievement 
l Students whose scholastic achievements drop suddenly 
l Students who find it difficult to adjust in college/hostel 
l Students who suddenly decide to drop out of college
l  Students who have behaviour problems such

--- CHUNK 57 ---
 as drug addiction, aggressiveness, 
bullying, stealing, shyness etc.17 
2. Building relationship with the student
 l Open communication and empathetic listening
 l Non-judgemental approach and maintaining confidentiality where required
3. Assessment of the problem
 Collection of information in order to identify, analyzes, evaluate, and address the 
problems, issues, and circumstances of students.
4. Setting Goals
l Identifying what student wants to achieve and the resources he/she has Narrow 
 

--- CHUNK 58 ---
down to specific goals from many
l SMART Goals
l Create an action plan to track and achieve the goal(s)
5. Intervention
 Directive, non-directive or eclectic counselling techniques based on students 
presenting problems.
6. Evaluation, Follow-up and Termination
 l Evaluating readiness for termination of counselling process;
 l Letting the client know in advance about the termination of counselling;
 l Discuss with client the readiness for termination; 
 l Review the course of action plan;
 l Emp

--- CHUNK 59 ---
hasize the client’s role in effecting change;
 l Giving instructions for the maintenance of adaptive functioning;
 l Discussion of follow up sessions; and
 l Assuring the availability of counsellor in case of relapse into dysfunction
Students’ Roles and Responsibilities
1. Student is responsible for initiating all contact with the mentor and should be 
prepared and punctual for the mentoring sessions.
2. Student is responsible for establishing the agenda for the conversation. At the 
beginning o

--- CHUNK 60 ---
f each session, the student should provide a brief update on progress 
since the last conversation.
3. Student should share his/her ideas, concerns, and professional goals so that the 
mentor is able to place the situation in perspective.
4. Student should focus on the relationship, rather than outcomes. Mentor’s role is 
not to provide a job; it is to share valuable experience with the student.
5. Student should ask direct questions about what he/she wants to know without 
any hesitation. Stude

--- CHUNK 61 ---
nt is responsible for ensuring, the conversation meets his/her 
needs.
6. Student must be respectful and act with responsibility in mentoring sessions.18 
ANTI-RAGGING REVIEW COMMITTEE 2024-2025
Sl. No Name of the Member Designation Contact No.
1. Dr Rio D’Souza Principal and Chairman 9663380761
2. Dr Purushothama 
Chippar
Vice Principal / Dean-R&D 9448071061
3. Dr Sudheer M Professor & Dean –Academics 9886396953
4. Dr Ramananda H S Professor & Dean – Student Welfare 9449593558
5. Dr Sharun Mend

--- CHUNK 62 ---
onca Associate Professor &  
Chairperson-DEG
9483914869
4. Dr Prakash Pinto Professor & Dean – MBA 9663623101
5. Dr Vincent Crasta Professor & Coordinator Anti 
Ragging Committee
9448253901
6. Dr Dayakshini Professor & HOD – ECE 9845327246
7. Dr Y ajnheswaran B. Professor & HOD - Civil 9497481974
8. Dr Shreeranga Bhat Professor & HOD - ME 9480047533
9. Dr Sridevi Saralaya Professor & HOD - CSE 9448823942
10. Dr Sanath Saralaya Associate Professor & HOD - EEE 9743080918
11. Dr Shreenath Acharya P

--- CHUNK 63 ---
rofessor & HOD - ICBS 9964025120
12. Dr Hareesh B Associate Professor &  HOD - MCA 9448152161
13. Dr Jyothi K Professor & HOD - Chemistry 9449554498
14. Dr Rajesh Kumar P C Professor & HOD - Physics 9448545435
15. Dr Jagadeesha B Professor & HOD -Mathematics 9448858534
16. Mr. Cherian Xavier Assistant Professor-MBA 9481110065
17. Ms Vijayalaxmi H M Assistant Professor-ECE 9900232595
18 Ms Bharathi A Rao Assistant Professor-EEE 9448727001
19. Mr Rajendran K V Security / Transport Officer 92412312

--- CHUNK 64 ---
11
20. Mr Francis D’Costa Warden – Boys Hostel 9481847140
21. Ms Zeena M. 
Fernandes
Warden – Girls Hostel 9845887558
22. Mr Shivakumar Police Inspector – Vamanjoor Police 
Station
  
948080533019 
ANTI-RAGGING FLYING SQUAD 2024-25
SI No Name of the Member Designation Department Contact No.
1. Dr Sharun Mendonca Associate Professor 
& Chairperson-DEG 
ME 9483914869
2. Mr Poornesh M Assistant Professor ME 9980153735
3. Dr Vincent Crasta Professor PHY 9448253901
4. Ms Lauline M. 
D’Souza
Assistant

--- CHUNK 65 ---
 Professor MATHS 9738286396
5. Ms Vijayalaxmi H M Assistant Professor ECE 9900232595
6. Dr Prakash K G Assistant Professor CIV 9886106937
7. Mr Cherian Xavier Assistant Professor MBA 9481110065
8. Ms Sumangala N Assistant Professor MCA 8971036810
9. Ms Jolly D'Mello Assistant Professor CSE 9353128073
10. Ms Shruti Patil Assistant Professor ICBS 7337654617
11. Ms Bharathi A Rao Assistant Professor EEE 9448727001
12. Ms Vaneesha 
Rodrigues
PED Physical 
Education
9880349541
13. Mr Rajendran K V Se

--- CHUNK 66 ---
curity /
Transport Officer
Security & 
Transport
9241231211
14. Mr Herald Sunil Britto Assistant Warden Boys Hostel 9901221868
15. Mr Felix Santhumayor Assistant Warden Boys Hostel 7406971575
16. Ms Zeena Maria 
Fernandes
Assistant Warden Girls Hostel 9845887558
DEDICATED CADRE OF PROFESSIONAL 
COUNSELLORS AND WARDEN 2024-2025
SI. No Name Designation Contact No.
1. Ms Preetha Aroza Campus Counsellor 9663332290
2. Dr Prashanth Raj Medical Officer 9845822030
3. Mr Francis D’Costa Warden – Boys Hos

--- CHUNK 67 ---
tel 9481847140
4. Mr Herald Sunil Britto Assistant Warden - Boys Hostel 9901221868
5. Mr Felix Santhumayor Assistant Warden - Boys Hostel 7406971575
6. Ms Zeena Maria 
Fernandes Assistant Warden - Girls Hostel 984588755820 
ST JOSEPH ENGINEERING COLLEGE, MANGALURU
RULES AND REGULATIONS
The following Rules and Regulations are applicable to all the students of the College.
1.  COLLEGE AUTHORITY:
a. The Principal is the ultimate ‘Authority’ regarding discipline or any other 
matter in the College, 

--- CHUNK 68 ---
and any decision/action taken by the said Authority 
shall be final and binding.
 2.  WORKING HOURS:
a. The College working hours are:
 Monday to Saturday:
 Morning Session - 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. 
 Afternoon Session - 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
 Lunch Break –1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.
b. The College siren will be sounded 10 minutes before the commencement 
of the morning and afternoon sessions. Students shall have to occupy their 
seats in their respective classrooms immediately after the siren is sou

--- CHUNK 69 ---
nded. 
Entry to the classrooms after the session’s commencing time is only at the 
discretion of the Faculty in charge of the session. Observation of strict 
silence during class hours is mandatory.
c. Except for special circumstances and justifiable reasons, late-comers will 
not be allowed to enter the classroom, unless they obtain an ‘admit note’ 
from the HOD. Students are not permitted to enter or leave the classroom 
without the permission of the Faculty. In any case, late-comers are not 


--- CHUNK 70 ---
entitled for attendance to the relevant session.
d. No student shall leave the campus during class hours without the written 
permission from the HOD/Principal.
e. No student shall leave the campus without written permission from the 
HOD/ Principal during the mid-morning session break of 20 minutes 
between 10.50 a.m.  and 11.10 a.m.
3.  PAYMENT OF COLLEGE FEES:
a. The College Fees are to be paid as per the due-date stipulated by the 
Management through appropriate notification. Non-payment of 

--- CHUNK 71 ---
the fees 
beyond the due-date will attract penalty as specified in the notification.21 
b. Tuition and other fees once paid will not be refunded. 
4.  IDENTITY CARD AND COLLEGE DRESS CODE:
a. It is mandatory for students to wear their Identity Card on campus. Any 
student found without wearing one’s Identity Card will be charged a fine of 
Rs. 500/-.
b. Duplicate Identity Card will be issued only in extraordinary circumstances. 
The student shall make a formal application establishing the loss o

--- CHUNK 72 ---
f the 
original and pay a sum of Rs. 500/- for issuance of a Duplicate Identity 
Card.
c. First and Second Year BE, MBA & MCA students are required to wear 
uniform stipulated by the College. 
d. All students are expected to be dressed neatly and decently. Hair should 
be well-trimmed and combed. Students are allowed to wear the T-shirts 
designed by the college on specific days of the week. Apart from those 
days, students should not wear T-shirts or causal attire on campus. 
e. Gentlemen are g

--- CHUNK 73 ---
enerally expected to be neatly shaven. In case of exceptions, 
prior permission must be sought from the Principal.
f.  Students should wear proper footwear such as sandals/shoes on campus.
g. Students attending Workshops or Specific Laboratories such as Chemistry 
/ Electrical Engineering may have to wear Workshop dress or other types 
of overalls as specified by the Head of the concerned department. Students 
should restrict the use of such dress only to the concerned workplace and 
should not 

--- CHUNK 74 ---
use such dress in other circumstances.
5.   ATTENDANCE AND INTERNAL ASSESSMENT
a.  Internal assessments are a part of the continuous evaluation. Two internal 
examinations will be conducted for BE branches, MBA & MCA. The 
average marks will be considered for internal assessment. However, on 
written request, improvement tests may be given only to students who score 
below-average marks.
b. For BE students, in every semester, after the first internal test, a Progress 
Report will be sent to the 

--- CHUNK 75 ---
parent/guardian within 3 weeks of the test being 
conducted. The said exercise is carried out to keep the parents/guardians 
informed and involved in the academic progress of their wards. Therefore, 
parents/guardians are requested to go through the progress report carefully 22 
and take such steps as are required to ensure that their ward improves his/ 
her academic performance wherever necessary.
c.  It shall be the student’s duty to check the internal assessment marks 
displayed on the notice

--- CHUNK 76 ---
 board. Any discrepancy in the marks shall be 
immediately brought to the notice of the concerned HOD. No change/ 
modification of the marks will be made once the same is communicated to 
the University.
d. Every student shall have a minimum 85% attendance in every subject 
which is a compulsory requirement as per VTU Regulations. Shortage of 
attendance in any subject will debar the student from appearing for the 
University Examinations. No hall-ticket will be issued to the student who 
has le

--- CHUNK 77 ---
ss than the above-stipulated attendance in any subject.
e.  Students who would like to represent the college in academic, sport or 
cultural activities are required to take prior permission from the concerned 
faculty coordinator in a prescribed format where parents signature is also 
required. 
f.  Under normal circumstances, participating in co-curricular or 
extracurricular activities inside or outside the campus during working 
hours/days is considered absence from classes. However, the said

--- CHUNK 78 ---
 absence 
may be condoned only on production/submission of a copy of the certificate 
of participation or a written note from the teacher/authority concerned. The 
maximum condonation allowed is 10% under any circumstances and is 
subject to the authorities discretion at the College and University level.
g. Any student who absents himself/herself from attending classes shall 
have to justify his/her absence to the concerned HOD. Any absence for 
more than 3 days on grounds of ill-health shall ha

--- CHUNK 79 ---
ve to be substantiated 
by production of a medical certificate to the class advisor, which shall be 
produced within two days of the student resuming attending regular classes. 
However, it is to be noted that mere production of a medical certificate will 
not entitle a student to get condonation for his/her absence, unless the same 
is acceptable to the College authorities.
h. Students should note that University Rules and Regulations applicable 
to the course of study are binding with respect 

--- CHUNK 80 ---
to attendance and internal 
assessment.
6.  USE OF MOBILE PHONES AND OTHER ELECTRONIC DEVICES:
a. Students shall bear in mind the purpose for which they have enrolled in the 
College, i.e. studying / learning. Under the circumstances, being distracted 23 
or distracting/ disturbing others during the College working hours and within 
the campus by using mobile phones or any other device is disapproved. 
Use of mobile phones is strictly forbidden inside the classrooms/within 
the academic blocks. 

--- CHUNK 81 ---
No student shall use the mobile phone for talking, 
texting, taking/ making/ viewing photos/ videos or for any other purpose 
in the classroom during class/ working hours. Students are to note that any 
violation of this rule shall lead to confiscation of the phone/device. Besides, 
a penalty may also be imposed on the student for contravention of this rule.
b. Internal Disciplinary Squad is responsible to raid the classrooms any 
time and confiscate the mobile phones/ devices. Such confiscated 

--- CHUNK 82 ---
phones/ 
devices will be returned only at the end of the academic year.
c. Safe-lockers have been provided for by the College in each and every 
department for students’ convenience/use.
d. Students have to affix their own locks to their respective lockers and the 
College shall not be responsible for the safety of the contents in the locker.
7.  ZERO-TOLERANCE POLICY ON RAGGING:
a. It is to be noted that the College has a zero-tolerance policy with regard to 
ragging. Ragging of any student by 

--- CHUNK 83 ---
any student of the College either in the 
College Campus or elsewhere is strictly forbidden. Anyone found guilty of 
ragging and or indulging/abetting in ragging is liable to be punished as per 
the Regulations of the Government.
b. The above apart, any incident of ragging will be dealt with seriously. Those 
found guilty of ragging will be dealt with without any leniency and will be 
dismissed forthwith from the College. In addition, a complaint regarding 
the act will also be lodged with the l

--- CHUNK 84 ---
ocal Police authorities. The College 
shall not be responsible for any consequences that may follow once such a 
complaint is lodged with the Police authorities.
8.  ZERO-TOLERANCE POLICY REGARDING SMOKING, USE OF 
DRUGS AND ALCOHOL:
a.   Smoking, consuming alcohol, being in possession, using, imbibing or 
distributing of illicit drugs or any other psychotropic substance or alcohol 
on College premises/precincts or in connection with any College activity is 
strictly prohibited.
b. Any offensive

--- CHUNK 85 ---
 behavior by any student as a consequence of the above shall 
make the student liable for severe disciplinary action and any violation will 
be dealt with severely by the College Authorities, including dismissal of the 24 
student from the College. Besides, use of drugs and any other psychotropic 
substance constitutes a grave offence under law and possession, or use of 
the same by any student shall be duly notified to the appropriate authorities, 
in which event, the student shall be wholly an

--- CHUNK 86 ---
d solely responsible for the 
legal/penal consequences that may follow.
9. RESPONSIBLE USE OF SOCIAL MEDIA
a.  Students, in general are expected to use social media such as WhatsApp 
and Facebook etc. responsibly and avoid any abuse thereof.
b. Any vilification based on race, caste, creed, religion, sex or gender identity 
posted on social media and the web, in general will result in severe 
disciplinary action against those posting or forwarding such posts.
c.  Students shall not use the emblem

--- CHUNK 87 ---
/photo of the College in their posts/ 
communications over social media (Facebook, WhatsApp etc.) or 
elsewhere, without the express permission of the College authorities.
10.  COMPLIANCE FOR STUDY TOURS
a. The College/Departments conduct study tours as a part of the academic 
programme with the prior approval from the Management.
b. Written consent and approval of the parents/guardians, in the prescribed 
form, must be submitted by all students going on study tours.
c. A detailed program of tra

--- CHUNK 88 ---
vel, stay, places of visit, participants name, 
etc. should be submitted to the Head of the Department/Principal before 
proceeding on any tour or excursion.
d. Students are not permitted to organize or conduct excursions, picnics or 
parties without the Head of Department and Principal/Director’s knowledge 
and written consent. Any excursions, picnics or parties conducted by the 
students, on their own, without the written consent of the authorities as 
stated above, that too by using/misusing 

--- CHUNK 89 ---
the name of the College, if found/ 
discovered/coming to the knowledge of the Management, shall be dealt 
with severely. All those involved shall be liable for strict disciplinary 
action/consequences as deemed fit by the Management.
11.  STUDENTS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
a.  It is mandatory for the   students   to   follow   all safety regulations 
during laboratory practice. Due care shall be taken by the student and 
procedure followed under the Laboratory Instructors/ Faculties guidance 
and superv

--- CHUNK 90 ---
ision while attending to practical studies in the laboratory. The 25 
Management shall not be responsible for any physical damage or mishap 
that might occur due to the student’s negligence. Any loss or damage caused 
to the lab equipment owing to careless handling of the student’s equipment 
by / negligence shall be recovered from the student.
b. The College prohibits all and any sort of political activity on the campus.
c.  Programmes by external agencies/professional groups/paid programmes 
s

--- CHUNK 91 ---
uch as DJ, musical events, etc. shall not be conducted inside the campus 
or its immediate surroundings without the College authorities express 
permission.
d. Students shall not invite police or media persons to the campus on their 
own.
e.  Fundraising of any kind by the students, on their own, is not permitted. 
Fundraising, for official programmes of the College, has to be carried out 
under proper supervision and complying with the best standards of probity 
and transparency.
f.  Celebratio

--- CHUNK 92 ---
ns of any nature shall not be arranged/organized by the students 
in the campus without written permission of the College authorities. All 
celebrations on the campus shall be under the supervision of the Principal 
or the designated staff.
g. Students possessing vehicles which they plan to use on the campus should 
register their vehicles with the transport office of the College.
h. Students will be allowed to park their vehicles only in designated parking 
areas within the College premises. En

--- CHUNK 93 ---
try of vehicles into restricted areas is 
strictly prohibited.
i.  Security personnel/ designated College staff are authorized to inspect the 
records of the vehicles entering the campus and register the details in the 
Register kept at the main entrance gate of the College.
j.  Students can make use of the Grievance Redressal Cell available in the 
College. Complaints/grievances of students will be looked into only if they 
are presented through the proper channel. Collective petitions, however

--- CHUNK 94 ---
, 
will not be entertained.
k. Students should ensure that no damage is done/destruction caused to 
College property. Scribbling on/defacing walls and furniture is strictly 
prohibited. Damage and destruction of College property will be severely 
dealt with and material loss, if any, will be fully recovered with fine from 
the student/s concerned.26 
l.  Students may participate in intercollegiate competitions only with the prior 
written permission from the Principal.
m. Friends of students fro

--- CHUNK 95 ---
m other institutions, and outsiders/persons not 
connected with the College, must take prior permission from the Principal 
by producing valid proof of identity to meet any Staff member/any student 
within the college campus.
n. Students are responsible for all their belongings. The College is not 
responsible for the loss of textbooks, notebooks, tiffin boxes, clothes, 
mobiles, laptops, money, ornaments, etc. of the students.
o. Any act of disrespect/discourtesy towards any Staff Member that a

--- CHUNK 96 ---
ffects 
the College’s discipline will be seriously viewed and in extreme cases may 
be reason sufficient for warranting dismissal of student’s concerned from 
the College. Likewise, any act considered as immoral in the opinion of 
the Management, grave insubordination, contempt for/to authority, willful 
damage to College property, malpractice in examinations etc., are also 
sufficient reasons for immediate dismissal of the student concerned from 
the College.
p. All students are considered equa

--- CHUNK 97 ---
ls. Therefore, students are strictly warned 
against discriminating any student based on community, caste, creed, race, 
colour, religion, class, category, etc. Any sort of discrimination will result 
in stringent disciplinary action being taken against the erring student/s.
q. Students who do not reside on campus shall provide the College with the 
details of their place of residence. Change of permanent address/contact 
numbers, etc. must be notified to the department concerned and the College

--- CHUNK 98 ---
 
office. Any communication/correspondence sent to the student’s address as 
given by him/her to the College shall be deemed to have been received by 
him/ her for all purposes.
r.  Students who wish to leave the College mid-year for any reason will be 
given a TC (Transfer Certificate) and any other Certificates only on payment 
of all fees payable for the remaining semesters and on clearing of any 
other dues to the College. Any Scholarships, stipend, financial assistance 
or concessions given

--- CHUNK 99 ---
 by the College to aid and assist the studies of such 
students shall be returned in full to the College. Failure to do so will entitle 
the College to recover the same by taking recourse to any Form or Forum 
at the student’s risk concerned as to all costs and consequences.
s.  In addition to the above, in the interest of the Institution and for the purpose 
of maintaining of discipline, the Principal is empowered to take any 27 
punitive action against any student for his/her act which shall b

--- CHUNK 100 ---
e construed 
as misconduct by the Management.
 For the purpose of the foregoing, ‘misconduct’ shall mean and include, but 
not be limited to:
i.   Staying away from classes without sufficient reason.
ii. Disrespectful behavior towards any Staff or student.
iii. Provoking and inciting fellow students to mass-bunk, strike or participating 
in a strike, dharna, mass-bunking etc.
iv. Loitering in the verandas during free hours and / or creating disturbance to 
other classes in progress (Students are

--- CHUNK 101 ---
 expected to use the library during 
free hours).
v.  Disorderly, unruly and riotous behavior in the class.
vi. Organizing tours/excursions/picnics without the written permission of the 
Principal.
vii. Organizing meetings in the College or displaying notices on the College 
notice board without the written permission of the HOD/Principal.
viii. Blocking gates/doors or passages, restricting the mobility of Staff and 
students in the College.
ix. Involvement in manhandling, abusing or harassing f

--- CHUNK 102 ---
ellow students.
x. Disturbing and disrupting functions in the auditorium by shouting, howling 
or dancing.
xi. Resorting to any kind of malpractice in examinations.
xii. Collecting money from Staff or students without the written permission of 
the HOD/Principal.
xiii. Distributing leaflets, handbills or other materials and displaying banners 
and posters inside the campus without prior permission of the Principal.
xiv. Scribbling offensive, abusive or obscene words or figures on blackboards 
or

--- CHUNK 103 ---
 any kind of writing/graffiti on the walls or other places in and around the 
College campus.
xv. Such other acts that may be considered as misconduct by the Management.
Any violations of the above nature shall be considered gravely by the Management 
and appropriate disciplinary action will be taken against the erring student, resulting 
in imposition of punishments such as fines, denial of attendance, withholding of 28 
certificates, forfeiture of educational concession/scholarship and suspens

--- CHUNK 104 ---
ion or 
dismissal from the College.
12.  PROCEDURE FOR HANDLING ALLEGATIONS OF MISCONDUCT
Objectives:  The objectives of the procedure are as follows:
(i)  to ensure the highest level of professional conduct by the students.
(ii) to provide a fair, deliberate, and efficient process for resolving allegations 
of misconduct by the students.
(iii) to reform students found guilty of misconduct.
a. The Principal of the College shall be the final disciplinary authority in 
respect of the students in t

--- CHUNK 105 ---
he College.
b. In case any student or group of students displays any misconduct, they 
shall incur immediate suspension from attending the classes and labs.
c. Suppose Principal is prima facie satisfied that the allegation of 
misconduct requires further investigation/enquiry, in that case he may 
refer the matter to a Disciplinary Committee constituted by him, which 
may comprise of the respective Head of Department, Dean - Student 
Welfare and such other Staff deemed competent under the given 

--- CHUNK 106 ---

circumstances. The Principal, at his/her discretion, reserves the right to 
appoint a competent person as enquiry officer depending upon the case 
and attendant circumstances.
d. The Disciplinary   Committee   so   appointed   may conduct the 
enquiry by calling for an explanation from the student/students against 
whom allegations of misconduct are imputed and take oral or written 
statements/ evidence from the student/students or any individual as is 
found necessary.
e. The Disciplinary Comm

--- CHUNK 107 ---
ittee may inform the parents of the student/
students about the allegations of misconduct. It may involve them 
during the enquiry depending upon the severity of the case.
 f. The Disciplinary Committee will give a fair and reasonable opportunity 
of defense to the student/students against whom the misconduct has 
been alleged. Upon completion of the enquiry submit a report to the 
Principal.
g. On receipt of the report of the Disciplinary Committee, the Principal 
on considering the same may ta

--- CHUNK 108 ---
ke appropriate action as he/she deems 29 
fit, which may include the imposition of the following punishments:
i. Submission of Assignments.
ii. Fine or Penalty.
iii. Rustication/suspension for a period as deemed fit.
iv. Dismissal from the College.
h. In the case of the first three types of punishments, a sustained counseling 
of student/students involved in misconduct by the campus counselor, 
with a view of reforming them, is mandated.
i. In the case of the first three types of punishments, th

--- CHUNK 109 ---
e student/ 
students will be required to give a letter/ undertaking admitting their 
involvement in misconduct, their acceptance of the punishment 
imposed and a willingness to undergo the counseling, as required. 
The student/students’ parents will be required to countersign the 
undertaking and take active responsibility for reforming the student/
students concerned.
j. In the event of imposing punishment of dismissal from the College, the 
Principal will subsequently inform the University abo

--- CHUNK 110 ---
ut the decision.
13.  AMENDMENTS, APPLICABILITY AND INTERPRETATION:
a. The Management reserves the right to amend, retract, alter or modify any 
of the above rules and regulations.
b. The Rules and Regulations defined by the individual Departments and other 
facilities/ Committees such as College Library, College Hostels, College Bus 
Facility, Central Computer Center, Examination Malpractice Prevention 
Committee, Cultural Committee, Physical Education Committee, etc. are 
binding and are appli

--- CHUNK 111 ---
cable in the specific context.
 c. In addition to the Rules and Regulations defined by College authorities, 
the students are further bound by the applicable rules and regulations 
published by University and various regulatory bodies of the Central State 
Government such as UGC, AICTE, etc.
d. The Principal shall be the final authority to interpret the Rules and 
Regulations in the institution’s best interest and any interpretation given by 
him shall be binding.
14. UNDERTAKING BY STUDENTS AND

--- CHUNK 112 ---
 PARENTS/GUARDIANS
a. It is to be understood that the above rules and regulations are in place 
for the smooth functioning of the College and to ensure that the students 30 
inculcate in themselves values that would make them productive members 
of the Society. Therefore, parents/guardians are requested to cooperate with 
the Management by ensuring that their wards are regular to their classes, 
attentive to their studies, maintain discipline both within and outside the 
College. Parent/Guardian

--- CHUNK 113 ---
s are expected to take a personal interest in their 
wards’ progress.
b. Parents/guardians are expected to respond to calls/correspondence from the 
College authorities from time to time. In case the parents/guardians desire 
to meet the teachers, they may do so preferably with prior appointment and 
discuss the problems if any that they feel the need to be solved concerning 
to their wards.
c. In addition to the orientation that the Staff will give to the students in the 
class regarding these 

--- CHUNK 114 ---
Rules and Regulations at the commencement of the 
semester, the parents/guardians and students are expected to go through 
these Rules and Regulations, understand them and follow them dutifully. 
Ignorance of these shall not be an excuse under any circumstances, 
whatsoever.
d. All students and their parents/guardians are expected to duly fill-in the 
attached “Undertaking” stating that they have read and understood these 
Rules and Regulations. They must submit the signed undertaking to the 
co

--- CHUNK 115 ---
ncerned Head of Department confirming their acceptance and willingness 
to abide by them, within the deadline stipulated through a notification.
*******31 
UNDERTAKING
NAME OF STUDENT:    USN/Roll No:  
CLASS (Year/Semester and Section):  BRANCH:
I ____________________________ bearing USN ___________________ hereby 
state that I have read and understood the Rules and Regulations given in the College 
Calendar and amendments to the same, notified from time-to-time.  I hereby 
unconditionally agre

--- CHUNK 116 ---
e to abide by all the provisions therein as long as I am student 
of St Joseph Engineering College. If for any reason whatsoever, I fail to keep up this 
undertaking, action may be taken against me, as per the provisions of the said Rules 
and Regulations. I further state that the addresses and contact details given below are 
valid and active during the time of submission.
Signature of the Student   Signature of the Parent/Guardian
Date:     Name:
     Relationship to Student: 
________________

--- CHUNK 117 ---
___________________________________________________
Address and Contact Details for the Current Year
Complete Address of Current Residence:
(Students coming from home may give 
their home address. Students staying in 
Rental/Paying Guest Facilities should 
give that address here. Hostelites may 
mention SJEC Gents/Ladies Hostel, as 
applicable)
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
Nearby Landmark: ____

--- CHUNK 118 ---
_____________
Landline Nos.:
Complete Address of Local Guardian:
(Applicable for Hostelites and Students 
staying in Rental/Paying Guest 
Facilities)
Name of the Local Guardian:
Address:
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
Nearby Landmark: ________________
Landline Nos.:
------------------------"------------------------"--------------------------"--------------------------"--------------------------
M

--- CHUNK 119 ---
obile No. of Student:   Email Address:
Parents’/Guardian’s Contact Details:
Mobile Nos:    Email Address:32 33 
LIBRARY RULES
Students are allowed to borrow/ refer books subject to the following rules of the 
Library.
WORKING HOURS 
Working Days 
Days Timengs 
Monday to Friday 8.00 a.m. to 8.00 p.m.
Saturday 8.00 a.m. to  5.00 p.m.
Sundays & Public Holidays 9.00 a.m. to 1.00 p.m. 
University Examination All Days 8.00 a.m. to 10.00 p.m.
During Vacation Monday to Saturday 8.30 a.m. to 5.15 p.m.
LI

--- CHUNK 120 ---
BRARY MEMBERSHIP AND BOOK BORROWING PROCEDURE
An application for membership along with 2/4 passport and 1 stamp size photographs 
must be submitted. Two borrower’s cards for UG and four borrower’s cards for PG 
are given to a member. The cards are not transferable. One Borrower’s Card enables 
the member to borrow one book at a time for which he/she is held responsible. In case 
of damage or loss, the member shall be required to replace it or pay double the cost.
Loss of Borrower Card and Librar

--- CHUNK 121 ---
y Membership Card shall be intimated to the 
Librarian in writing. A Duplicate card will be issued at the cost of Rs.10/- per Borrower 
Card and Rs.100/- Library Membership Card after verification. To obtain “No Dues 
Certificate” from the college, members should return all the books borrowed, pay 
overdue charges if any and surrender the Borrower’s Card / Library Membership Card 
to the Library.
There is a provision to issue one overnight reference book to be returned the next day 
morning befo

--- CHUNK 122 ---
re 8.15 a.m. A fine of Rs.10/- for every half an hour will be imposed on 
those who fail to return the book on time.
BOOK BANK SCHEME:
Membership granted on payment of a refundable deposit of Rs. 1,000/- for General 
Student (of which 50% is refundable) and Rs.250/- for SC/ST student (fully 
refundable). Two textbooks will be issued for a semester. They must be returned latest 
on the last examination day of that semester.
Strict silence must be observed in the library, reading room and the vera

--- CHUNK 123 ---
ndah 
leading to the library. Personal belongings like bags, books, coats, mobile, 
umbrella and caps etc. are not allowed into the library. Writing, drawing on the 
reading tables is strictly prohibited.34 
COLLEGE BUS RULES & REGULATIONS
1. Using the college bus facility is optional and not compulsory. Only the staff/ 
students who agree to abide by the transport rules of the college are advised to 
use this facility.
2. Students seeking admission for the year and Staff at the beginning of the

--- CHUNK 124 ---
 
academic year are required to fill the application form for bus facility, deposit 
prescribed fee and obtain the receipt from the Accounts Department.
3. The Students and Staff who wish to apply for the bus pass are required to do 
the same within one week of the commencement of year. Those who fail to 
apply within the given time are required to take special permission from the 
Management. Fine will be levied on those who apply after the due date.
4. The transport fee should be paid at the b

--- CHUNK 125 ---
eginning of the year. The fee once paid 
will not be refunded/adjusted under any circumstances. Please note that this 
amount is applicable only to the current academic year and does not ensure the 
facility for the other years.
5. The Annual transport charges will be notified to the Students/Staff every year in 
advance and it may be subject to change depending on the increase in the cost 
of operation.
6. Staff/Students are required to select a suitable route and confirm the same at the 
time 

--- CHUNK 126 ---
of admission. One cannot change the boarding /dropping point or routes 
without prior permission from the Management. Such change of requests will 
not be entertained during the middle of the semester.
7. Changing of routes on a regular basis will not be allowed.
8. The boarding/dropping point should be mentioned clearly in the application 
form. All are required to follow the boarding/dropping point mentioned in the 
Bus Application Form.
9. Students/Staff travelling by bus will be issued a Bus

--- CHUNK 127 ---
 travel pass which has to be 
carried regularly.
10. Reservation of seats and the issuing of the seat numbers will be provided on the 
first-come, first-served basis.
11. Students/Staff will be required to produce the Bus travel pass as and when 
requested by the Driver/Bus Coordinator/Security.
12. If anybody is found travelling without a valid Bus travel pass, he/she will be 
charged a fine of Rs.100/- per travel. If anybody is found travelling without 
paying the prescribed fee, a fine of Rs.

--- CHUNK 128 ---
500/- will be charged per travel.35 
13. The Departure timing at each point is strictly followed by the Bus Driver. The 
Bus Driver will not be held responsible in case the Student/Staff does not reach 
at his/her pick up point on time.
14. Students/Staff will not be allowed to board the bus earlier than 15 minutes to the 
scheduled departure of the bus.
15. The Management will not run the transport facility if there are very few 
students i.e., less than 10 in a route, especially during the vac

--- CHUNK 129 ---
ation/University 
Examinations.
16. The bus will depart from the college as per the timings scheduled below: 
Monday to Saturday: 5.10 pm
17. All the staff/students are strictly advised to follow the bus timings mentioned 
behind the bus pass.
18. Students/Staff are requested to wave at the bus to indicate their presence to the 
driver at the designated stop.
19. Parents/relatives are not permitted to travel on the college bus at any time unless 
permitted by the Management in special cases.
20.

--- CHUNK 130 ---
 All the staff/students/parents should be aware of the transport rules of the 
College and violation of the same will not be an excuse for any dispute/claim.
21. Eatables are not allowed inside the bus.
22. Everyone should maintain discipline in the bus. Staff/Students must note that 
ragging in any form is a punishable offence. If any student indulges in ragging, 
the bus facility given to him/her will be withdrawn.
23. The College can change, alter, amend any of the above rules at any point of

--- CHUNK 131 ---
 time 
and it will be binding on the staff/students.
24. In case of violation of above rules, Management may take action against the 
staff/students as it deems fit.36 
SPORTS RULES & REGULATIONS 
TEAM FORMATION
The procedure for team formation in sports, by the authority, often follows a structured 
process designed to ensure fairness, competitiveness, and adherence to the sport’s 
rules and regulations.
1. Establishment of Regulations
l Defining Eligibility: Criteria such as age, gender, are e

--- CHUNK 132 ---
stablished.
l Setting Standards: For professional and competitive teams, standards might 
include skill levels, physical fitness requirements, or even contractual 
obligations.
2. Call for Participation
l Announcement: Authorities announce the formation of teams, detailing the 
eligibility criteria, registration deadlines, and tryout dates, if applicable.
l Registration: Interested athletes register for tryouts or team placements, often 
providing necessary documentation to prove eligibility.
3.

--- CHUNK 133 ---
 Evaluation and Tryouts
l Organizing Tryouts: For new teams or seasons, tryouts may be held to assess the 
skills, fitness, and suitability of prospective players.
l Selection Criteria: Coaches and selectors use these criteria, which could include 
physical abilities, technical skills, tactical understanding, and psychological 
attributes, to evaluate players.
4. Team Selection
l Drafting Players: In some professional leagues, teams select players through a 
draft system, where teams pick athlet

--- CHUNK 134 ---
es in a pre-determined order.
l Finalizing Roster: The coaching staff or selection committee finalizes the team 
roster based on tryouts, player performance, and team needs.
5. Team Organization
l Assigning Roles: Beyond selecting players, roles such as team captain, vice-
captain, and specific positions are assigned, depending on the sport.
l Establishing Governance: Rules regarding team management, player conduct, 
and responsibilities are set.
6. Compliance with Regulations
l Dress Code and E

--- CHUNK 135 ---
quipment: Teams ensure compliance with any dress code or 
equipment regulations set by the governing bodies.37 
l Eligibility Verification: Players’ eligibility and team compliance with all rules 
and regulations are verified.
8. Participation in Competitions
l Scheduling: Teams are informed of their fixtures, tournament dates, and venues.
l Ongoing Evaluation: Teams may adjust their rosters based on player 
performance, injuries, and other factors as allowed by the rules.
GROUND RULES FOR STUDE

--- CHUNK 136 ---
NTS
1. Respect and Sportsmanship
l Participants must show respect towards referees, opponents, teammates, and 
spectators.
l Sportsmanship is key; winning is important, but how you play the game matters 
more.
2.  Dress code
l Students are expected to maintain discipline in the playground.
l Students must wear proper sports uniform and shoes while playing the sport.
l If Students come to ground without the proper sports attire or found using bad 
words, then those students will be penalized by t

--- CHUNK 137 ---
he PED and will not be allowed 
to play in the ground.
3. Adherence to the Rules
l All participants must know and play by the specific rules of the sport, which 
cover gameplay, scoring, and penalties for infractions.
l Officials, such as referees or umpires, enforce these rules, and their decisions 
are final.
l Students should not be seen loitering around in the Ground without any official 
reason. Disciplinary action will be taken against the defaulter.
4. Equality and Fair Play
l Teams and p

--- CHUNK 138 ---
layers should start the game on an equal footing, with no unfair 
advantages. This includes equal opportunities in terms of time, resources, and 
access to training and facilities.
l The rules aim to ensure a level playing field, where skill, effort, and teamwork 
determine the outcome of the game.
5. Behavioral Expectations
l Codes of conduct that govern player behavior both on and off the field, 38 
addressing issues like violence, verbal abuse, and unsportsmanlike conduct.
l Regulations on th

--- CHUNK 139 ---
e use of performance-enhancing drugs, gambling, and other 
activities that could undermine the integrity of the sport.
6. Conflict Resolution
l Procedures for resolving disputes, whether through in-game officials, post-
match reviews, or formal appeals processes.
l Mechanisms for penalizing rule breaches, ranging from in-game penalties to 
suspension or fines. 39 
MANAGING COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Director Rev. Fr Wilfred P. D’Souza
Asst Director Rev. Fr Kenneth Rayner Crasta
Principal Dr Rio D’Souza, 

--- CHUNK 140 ---
BE, M.Tech, ADAB, PhD
HR Manager Mr Rakesh Thomas Lobo, EMBA, MSW
EXAMINATION SECTION
Controller of Examination (COE) Dr Rohan Pinto, BE,  M.Tech, PhD 
Dy. Controller of Examination (DCOE) Dr Sharun Mendonca, AMIE, M. Tech, 
PhD
Role: The COE and DCOE are the officers in charge for all examination related 
activities.  
Responsibilities:
a)  Preparations for pre-examination and post-examination activities. 
b) Selection of examiners for paper setting, lab examinations and valuations. 
c) Convene

--- CHUNK 141 ---
 BOE meetings in consultation with respective Board chairmen.
d) All matters pertaining to smooth conduct of examinations, evaluation and grading, 
publication of results and printing of grade cards, provisional degree certificates and 
transcripts. 
e) Maintaining all records pertaining to examinations.40 
RESEARCH CENTERS
Research Centers Guides
Physics Dr Vincent Crasta, B.Sc., M.Sc., PGDCA PhD, MISTE
Dr Rajesh Kumar P.C., B.Sc., M.Sc., PhD 
Chemistry Dr K. Jyothi, B.Sc., M.Sc., PhD, MISTE
Ma

--- CHUNK 142 ---
thematics
Dr Ramananda H.S, B.Sc., M.Sc., MISTE, PhD
Dr Jagadeesha B, B.Sc., M.Sc., PhD 
Dr Shubha V .S, B.Sc., M.Sc., PhD
Computer Science &  
Engineering
Dr Rio D’Souza, BE, M.Tech,  PhD, MISTE
Dr Sridevi Saralaya, AMIE, M.Tech,  MISTE,  PhD  
Dr Shreenath Acharya, BE, M.Tech, MISTE, PhD
Mechanical 
Engineering
Dr Sudheer M, BE, M.Tech, PhD, MISTE 
Dr Purushothama Chippar, BE, M.E, PhD    
Dr Shreeranga Bhat, BE, M.Tech, PhD
Dr Raju K, BE, M.Tech, PhD, MISTE 
Dr Binu K. G, BE, M.Tech, PhD, MIS

--- CHUNK 143 ---
TE
Dr Sharun Mendonca, AMIE, M.Tech, PhD 
Dr Sushanth Gowda, BE, M.Tech, PhD
Electrical & 
Electronics 
Engineering
Dr Sheryl Grace Colaco, BE, M.Tech, PhD, MISTE
Dr Sanath Saralaya, BE,  M.Tech, PhD
Civil Engineering Dr Yajnheswaran B, BE, M.Tech, PhD
Dr ESTR Chandra Sekhar B, B.Tech, M.Tech, PhD 
Electronics &  
Communication  
Engineering
Dr  Dayakshini, BE,  M.Tech, MISTE, PhD
Dr Rohan Pinto, BE,  M.Tech, PhD
Business 
Administration
Dr Prakash Pinto, B.Com, MBA, M.Com, 
MA(Philosophy), PGDI

--- CHUNK 144 ---
M, PGDFM, PhD
Dr Anjali Ganesh, B. Com, M. Com, MBA, PGDHA, 
DMLT, PhD
Dr Babitha Rohit, BBM, MBA, PhD
Dr Shakila B, B.Com, M.Com, M. Phil, PhD41 
DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
BE and PhD Programmes 
Vision 
To be a value based department committed to excellence in teaching and research, 
nurturing technically competent and socially responsible engineering professionals. 
Mission 
1. Providing state-of-the-art technical knowledge in Mechanical Engineering.
2. Promoting research, education

--- CHUNK 145 ---
 and training in frontier areas of Mechanical 
Engineering.
3. Facilitating faculty development through quality improvement programmes.
4. Initiating collaboration with industries, research organizations and institutes for 
internship, joint research and consultancy.
5. Instilling social and ethical values in students, staff and faculty through personality 
development programmes.
6. Developing innovation in engineering and technology in order to provide 
beneficial service to the local communit

--- CHUNK 146 ---
y.
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO 1:  Graduates will engage in designing, manufacturing, testing, operating and/
or maintaining systems in the field of Mechanical Engineering and allied 
industries.
PEO 2:  Graduates will be able to communicate and perform effectively in both 
individual and team-based project environments, including multi-
disciplinary settings.
PEO 3:  Graduates will apply knowledge and skills considering ethical practices, 
societal, economic and environmental fact

--- CHUNK 147 ---
ors and/or pursue higher 
education and research.
PEO 4:  Graduates will develop the practice of continuously updating themselves 
with the latest knowledge and information in their field of specialization.
Program Outcomes (POs)
Engineering Graduates will be able to: 
1.  Engineering knowledge:  Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, 
engineering fundamentals, and engineering specialization to the solution of 
complex engineering problems.42 
2.  Problem analysis: Identify, formulate, rev

--- CHUNK 148 ---
iew research literature, and analyze 
complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first 
principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences. 
3.  Design/development of solutions: Design solutions for complex engineering 
problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified 
needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the 
cultural, societal, and environmental considerations. 
4. Conduct investigatio

--- CHUNK 149 ---
ns on complex problems: Use research-based 
knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis 
and interpretation of data, and the synthesis of information to provide valid 
conclusions. 
5.  Modern tool usage: Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, 
resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and 
modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the 
limitations. 
6.  The engineer and society:  Apply reasoning informed

--- CHUNK 150 ---
 by the contextual 
knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the 
consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice. 
7.  Environment and sustainability: Understand the impact of the professional 
engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate 
the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development. 
8. Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and 
responsibilities and norms of

--- CHUNK 151 ---
 the engineering practice. 
9.  Individual and team work:  Function effectively as an individual, and as a 
member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings. 
10. Communication: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities 
with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able 
to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make 
effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions. 
11. Project management 

--- CHUNK 152 ---
and finance:  Demonstrate knowledge and 
understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these 
to one’s own work, as a member and a leader in a team, to manage projects and 
in multidisciplinary environments. 
12. Life-long learning:  Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and 
ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context 
of technological change.43 
Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs)
Graduates of the Mechanical Engineering program

--- CHUNK 153 ---
 are able to
PSO1:  Take up research programs on contemporary areas of Mechanical engineering.
PSO2:  Gain competence to face various competitive examinations and succeed in 
seeking the best opportunities in the corporate world and higher studies.
TEACHING STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Dr Purushothama Chippar Professor & Vice 
Principal
B.E, M.E., PhD
Dr Sudheer M. Professor & Dean-
Academic Affairs
B.E., M. Tech, PhD, 
MISTE
Dr. Shreeranga Bhat Professor & HOD B.E. M. Tech, PhD 
Dr. Raj

--- CHUNK 154 ---
u K. Professor B.E., M. Tech, PhD, 
MISTE
Dr Binu K. G. Professor  & Head S&P B.E., M. Tech, PhD, 
MISTE
Dr Sharun Mendonca Associate Professor AMIE M. Tech , PhD
Dr Sushanth Gowda Associate Professor B.E, M. Tech, PhD
Dr Ravikantha Prabhu Associate Professor B.E. M. Tech., PhD
Dr. Rolvin Sunil D’Silva Associate Professor B.E., M. Tech, MISTE, 
PhD
Dr Pavana Kumara B. Associate Professor & 
Head IQAC
BE, M. Tech , PhD
Dr Vijay V .S. Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech, PhD
Dr Swaraj Dominic Lewis 

--- CHUNK 155 ---
Assistant Professor BE, M. Tech, PhD
Mr. Prashanth Kumar Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech, (PhD)
Mr. Prathviraj H. Assistant Professor B.E, M. Tech, MISTE 
Mr. Rudolf D’Souza Assistant Professor B.E. M.Sc. Engg. 
Mr. Noel Deepak Shiri Assistant Professor B.E   M. Tech
Mr. Ashwin Shetty Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech
Mr. Vinoothan Kaliveer Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech
Mr. Yathish Kumar K Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech
Ms Ramya M. Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech 
Mr Poornesh M. Assis

--- CHUNK 156 ---
tant Professor B.E., M. Tech., (PhD)44 
Mr Joel Antony D'Mello Assistant Professor B.E, M. Tech 
Mr Rajesh Belchada Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech 
Mr Abhijith S Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech 
TECHNICAL STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Mr James Manoj Mascarenhas Foreman BE
Mr Christophper Cutinho Lab Instructor Diploma
Mr Harshith Lab Instructor Diploma
Ms Jayashri Lab Instructor Diploma
Mr Rajesh Lab Instructor Diploma
Mr Rajesha Lab Instructor Diploma
Mr Gunakara Lab Instructor Dipl

--- CHUNK 157 ---
oma
Mr Immanuel Jayakar Amanna Lab Assistant Diploma
Mr Vathan Kumar Lab Assistant Diploma
Mr Bhaskar Jr. Technician Diesel Mechanic & 
Automobile servicing
DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING
BE and PhD Programmes
Vision
To be recognized as a centre of excellence in computer and allied areas with quality 
learning and research environment.
Mission
1. Prepare competent professionals in the field of computer and allied fields 
enriched with ethical values.
2.  Contribute to the Socio-eco

--- CHUNK 158 ---
nomic development of the country by imparting 
quality education in computer and Information Technology.
3.   Enhance employability through skill development.
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO 1:  To impart to students a sound foundation and ability to apply 45 
engineering fundamentals, mathematics, science and humanities 
necessary to formulate, analyze, design and implement engineering 
problems in the field of computer science.
PEO 2:  To develop in students the knowledge of fundamen

--- CHUNK 159 ---
tals of computer 
science and engineering to work in various related fields such as 
network, data, web and system engineering.
PEO 3:  To develop in students the ability to work as a part of team through 
effective communication on multidisciplinary projects.
PEO 4: To train students to have successful careers in computer and information 
technology industry that meets the needs of society enriched with 
professional ethics.
PEO 5:  To develop in students the ability to pursue higher education 

--- CHUNK 160 ---
and 
engage in research through continuous learning. 
Program Outcomes (POs)
By the end of the undergraduate programme in CSE, graduates will be able to:
1. Apply knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, 
computer science and engineering to solve complex engineering problems.
2. Identify, formulate, research literature, and analyze complex engineering 
problems in reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of 
mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering scie

--- CHUNK 161 ---
nces.
3. Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system 
components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate 
consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and 
environmental considerations.
4. d) Conduct   investigations   of   complex   problems   using   research-based 
knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis 
and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid 
con

--- CHUNK 162 ---
clusions.
5. Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern 
engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex 
engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.
6. Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, 
health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities 
relevant to the professional engineering practice.
7. Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in s

--- CHUNK 163 ---
ocietal 46 
and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of and need 
for sustainable development.
8. Apply   ethical   principles   and   commit   to   professional   ethics   and 
responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.
9. Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse 
teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.
10. Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the 
engineering community and with society at large, such a

--- CHUNK 164 ---
s, being able to 
comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make 
effective presentations, give and receive clear instructions.
11. Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and 
management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and 
leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments.
12. Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in 
independent and life-long learning in the broadest c

--- CHUNK 165 ---
ontext of technological 
change
Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs)
By the end of the undergraduate programme in CSE, graduates will be able to:
1.  Understand the principles underlying entrepreneurship, freelancing and the 
requirements to initiate a start up in the IT or related domains.
2.  Participate effectively in competitive examinations for career growth, higher 
studies and to pursue research.
TEACHING STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Dr Rio D’Souza Principal/Professor B.E., M. Tech, P

--- CHUNK 166 ---
hD, 
MISTE
Dr Sridevi Saralaya Professor & HOD AMIE., M. Tech, 
MISTE, PhD 
Dr Harivinod N. Associate Professor B.Sc., M.Sc., M. Tech, 
PhD 
Dr Saumya Y .M. Associate Professor B.E, M. Tech., PhD
Dr Santhosh Kumar D.K. Associate Professor B.E, M. Tech., PhD
Dr Shrisha H.S. Associate Professor B.E, M. Tech., PhD
Dr Sunitha Guruprasad Assistant Professor B.E, M. Tech, PhD47 
Ms. Supriya Salian Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech
Ms Nisha Jenifer Roche Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech 
Ms Jaishma Ku

--- CHUNK 167 ---
mari B. Assistant Professor B.E, M. Tech
Ms Prajna M. Assistant Professor B.E, M. Tech
Ms Anusha Assistant Professor B.E, M. Tech
Ms Supreetha D.R. Assistant Professor B.E, M. Tech
Ms Pruthvi M.R. Assistant Professor B.E, M. Tech
Ms Jolly D'Mello Assistant Professor B.E, M. Tech
Ms Jithya K.V . Assistant Professor B. Tech., M. Tech
Ms Vanisha Preethi Santhmayor Assistant Professor B.E, M. Tech
Ms Namitha P. Assistant Professor B. Tech., M. Tech
Ms L. Hema Assistant Professor B.Sc., M.Sc., M. Tec

--- CHUNK 168 ---
h
Ms Shiji Abraham Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech
Dr Melwyn D'Souza Adjunct Professor B.E, M. Tech, PhD 
TECHNICAL STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Ms Sandhya Rani Asst. System Administrator Diploma
Ms Mamitha U Programmer Diploma
Ms Nikhitha Shetty Programmer Diploma
Ms Pavithra Programmer Diploma
Ms Swapna Programmer Diploma
Ms Nishmitha Programmer Diploma
Mr Shravan Kumar Programmer Diploma
Ms Rakshitha B.S. Programmer Diploma
Ms Mohalatha Programmer Diploma
Ms Shreya Programmer Diplom

--- CHUNK 169 ---
a
Mr Preetham Programmer Diploma
CENTRAL COMPUTER CENTRE
Name Designation Qualification
Mr Sunith Kumar T. Assistant Professor & 
I/C CCC
B.Sc., MCA, (PhD)
Mr Lokesh Suvarna System Administrator BA, Adv DCA
Mr Keerthi D’Souza Lab Instructor MCA48 
Mr Ashley Mario Dias Asst. Lab Technician Diploma in Basic Ele and AT
Ms Ida Jacintha 
Cordeiro
Graphic Designer Course in Graphic Designing
Mr Prajith Kumar Trainee Media Assistant B.Com
DEPARTMENT OF INTELLIGENT COMPUTING  
AND BUSINESS SYSTEMS 
BE P

--- CHUNK 170 ---
rogramme
Vision
To impart value based quality education with the motive of transforming mankind 
with excellence and competing areas of engineering, technology and management.
Mission
1. Focus on the practical aspects of the curriculum to make learning a meaningful 
and interesting experience.
2. Encourage active collaboration with industries, communities, and fellow 
institutions within the country and abroad.
3. Infuse strong moral and ethical principles in students in order to make them 
cons

--- CHUNK 171 ---
cientious citizens and excellent human beings.
4. Cultivate the competitive spirit required for success.
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO 1:  To provide students with a solid foundation and the ability to use 
engineering concepts, mathematics, physics, and humanities required 
to develop, analyse, design, and implement solutions to the problems 
in intelligent computing and business systems.
PEO 2: To develop in students, the knowledge of computer science and 
engineering to work in do

--- CHUNK 172 ---
mains such as artificial intelligence, machine 
learning and data science.
PEO 3: To foster in students, the capacity of teamwork through efficient 
communication in multidisciplinary projects.
PEO 4: To prepare students for building successful careers in artificial 
intelligence, data science and business systems to meet the needs of 
society while incorporating professional ethics.49 
PEO 5: To inspire learners to pursue higher education in their desired fields 
and engage in research.
Program

--- CHUNK 173 ---
me Outcomes (POs)
PO 1: Apply knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, 
computer science and engineering to solve complex engineering 
problems.
PO 2:  Identify, formulate, research literature, and analyze complex 
engineering problems in reaching substantiated conclusions using first 
principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.
PO 3:  Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system 
components or processes that meet the specifie

--- CHUNK 174 ---
d needs with appropriate 
consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, 
and environmental considerations.
PO 4:  Conduct investigations of complex problems using research-based 
knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, 
analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to 
provide valid conclusions.
PO 5:  Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern 
engineering and IT tools including prediction

--- CHUNK 175 ---
 and modeling to complex 
engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.
PO 6:  Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess 
societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent 
responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.
PO 7:  Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in 
societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge 
of and need for sustainable development.
PO 8:  Apply e

--- CHUNK 176 ---
thical principles and commit to professional ethics and 
responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.
PO 9:  Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in 
diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.
PO 10:  Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the 
engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able 
to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, 
make effective presentations, give and receive

--- CHUNK 177 ---
 clear instructions.
PO 11:  Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and 
management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member 50 
and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary 
environments.
PO 12:  Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage 
in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of 
technological change.
Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs)
1.  Recognize the tenets of entrepreneurship, freela

--- CHUNK 178 ---
ncing and the prerequisites for 
starting a business in the IT or related fields.
2. Participate skilfully in competitive examinations for certification, professional 
advancement, and admission to higher studies.
TEACHING STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Dr Shreenath Acharya Professor & HOD B.E., M. Tech, MISTE  
PhD
Dr Shabina Bhaskar Associate Professor B.Sc., MCA, PhD
Dr Shahjahan Aboobacker Associate Professor B. Tech, M. Tech., PhD
Ms Gayana M.N. Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech (PhD)

--- CHUNK 179 ---

Ms Renuka Tantry Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech (PhD)
Ms Farha Anjum Assistant Professor B.E, M. Tech (PhD)
Mr Davor John D'Souza Assistant Professor B.E., M.E.
Ms Teena A. James Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech
Ms Prathibha G. Gaonkar Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech. (PhD)
Ms Shruti Patil Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech
Ms Saleena T.S. Assistant Professor B.Sc., MCA, (PhD)
Ms Shruthi Vishwajeeth Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech., (PhD)
Ms Devikrishna K.S. Assistant Professor B.E., M. 

--- CHUNK 180 ---
Tech
Mr Konanki Surendra Assistant Professor B. Tech., M. Tech
Ms Hashida Haidros Rahima 
Manzil
Assistant Professor B. Sc., M. Sc., (PhD)
Ms. Vijetha U Assistant Professor B.E., M.Tech., (PhD).
TECHNICAL STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Ms Theresa Reshma Pinto Programmer Diploma51 
Ms Divya B. Programmer Diploma
Ms Yashaswini Programmer Diploma
Ms Maithri Shetty Programmer Diploma
Mr K. Sandeepa Hebbar Programmer Diploma
Mr Chethan Programmer Diploma
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRONICS &  
COMMUNICAT

--- CHUNK 181 ---
ION ENGINEERING
BE and PhD Programmes
Vision
To Excel in Electronics and Communication Engineering Education and Research, 
focusing on the needs of Industry and Society, with professional ethics.
Mission 
1. Provide opportunities to deserving students for quality professional education 
in the field of Electronics and Communication.
2. Design and deliver curricula to meet the changing needs of industry through 
student centric learning methodologies to excel in their profession.
3. Recruit, Nur

--- CHUNK 182 ---
ture and Retain best faculty and technical manpower.
4. Consolidate the state-of-art infrastructure and equipment for teaching and 
research   activities.
5. Promote all round personality development of the students through interaction 
with alumni, academia and industry.
6. Strengthen the Educational Social Responsibilities of the institution.
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO 1:  To provide students with the solid foundation in mathematical, scientific, 
Electronics and Communication e

--- CHUNK 183 ---
ngineering to analyze data and technical 
concepts for application to product design and also to pursue higher 
education.
PEO 2:  To train students with good scientific and engineering breadth, including 
proficiency in software language and use of latest software tools so as to 
comprehend, analyze, design and create novel products and solutions for 
the real life problems.52 
PEO 3:  To develop skills in students for successful careers in industry that meet the 
needs of Indian and multinatio

--- CHUNK 184 ---
nal companies, through rigorous education.
PEO 4:  To inculcate in students professional and ethical attitude, effective 
communication skills and teamwork, multidisciplinary approach, and an 
ability to relate engineering issues to broader social context.
PEO 5: To provide students with an academic environment to become aware of 
excellence, leadership, written ethical codes and guidelines, and the life-
long learning needed for a successful professional career.
Program Outcomes (POs)
Engineeri

--- CHUNK 185 ---
ng Graduates will be able to: 
1. Apply Knowledge: Apply knowledge of mathematics, science and 
engineering fundamentals, and Electronics and Communication Engineering 
for the solution of engineering problems.
2. Solve Problems: Identify, formulate and solve engineering problems. 
3. Design/ Development of Solution:  Design electronic systems, components 
or processes to meet desired specifications within realistic constraints of 
economic and environmental standards.
4. Conduct Investigations:

--- CHUNK 186 ---
 Design and conduct experiments, as well as to 
analyze and interpret data pertaining to electronic systems.
5. Use Modern Tools:  Use computer aided software tools and techniques for 
solving electronics and communication engineering problems.
6. Engineer and Society: Demonstrate awareness of contemporary engineering 
problems.
7. Environment and Sustainability: Apply engineering solutions in societal 
and environmental context.
8. Professional Ethics: Understand professional and ethical respon

--- CHUNK 187 ---
sibility.
9. Individual and Team Work: Function within multidisciplinary teams.
10. Communicate Effectively:  Communicate effectively in terms of system 
specifications within the team.
11. Project Management and Finance:  Demonstrate the understanding of 
management principles as applied to the specified work and apply this 
knowledge to manage the projects as a member and leader in a team.
12. Life-long learning: Continue the education in self-learning mode.53 
Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs)

--- CHUNK 188 ---

Engineering Graduates will be able to: 
PSO1: Analyze and develop solutions in the areas of Signal Processing and 
Communication Systems.
PSO2: Apply knowledge of Embedded Systems and VLSI to design and develop 
solutions for societal problems.
TEACHING STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Dr  Dayakshini Professor & HOD B.E., M. Tech., 
MISTE, PhD
Dr Rohan Pinto Professor & COE B.E., M. Tech, PhD
Dr Jennifer Charlotte Saldanha Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech. PhD
Dr Aldrin Claytus Vaz Assista

--- CHUNK 189 ---
nt Professor B.E., M. Tech. PhD
Ms Nandini Maninarayana Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech, MISTE 
(PhD)
Ms Vijayalaxmi H .M. Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech, MISTE 
(PhD)
Ms  Reshma K. J. Assistant Professor B.E. M. Tech, (PhD)
Ms Shama B.N. Assistant Professor B.E. , M. Tech (PhD)
Ms Preetha D’Souza Assistant Professor B.E. M. Tech, (PhD)
Mr. Prasad S M Assistant Professor B.E. M. Tech
Mr Vijay Ganesh PC Assistant Professor B.E, M. Tech. (PhD)
Ms Deepthi S.R. Assistant Professor B.Tech, M.Tec

--- CHUNK 190 ---
h, (PhD) 
Ms Chaitra U.R. Assistant Professor B.E., M.Tech, (PhD) 
Ms K. Aarya Shri Assistant Professor AMIE, M.Tech, (PhD)
Mr Keith Raymond Fernandes Assistant Professor B.E., M.E. (PhD)
Ms Padmini Bhat Assistant Professor B.E., M.Tech (PhD)
Ms Jayalakshmi K.P. Assistant Professor B.Tech, M.Tech, (PhD)
Ms. Priya Seema Miranda Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech, (PhD)
Ms Florence Nishmitha Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech
Mr Glenson Toney Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech. (PhD)
Ms Simi P. Thoma

--- CHUNK 191 ---
s Assistant Professor B.Tech, M.Tech, (PhD)
Ms Aswathi T. Assistant Professor B.Tech, M.Tech, (PhD)
Ms Vinitha Pasanha Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech 54 
Ms Savitha J. Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech 
Mr Radhakrishna Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech 
Ms Jane Maria Wilma Lasrado Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech 
TECHNICAL STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Ms. Divya D. Foreman AIME
Ms Bhagya Lab Instructor Diploma
Ms. Divya K V Lab Instructor Diploma
Ms. Saritha Lab Instructor Diploma
Ms

--- CHUNK 192 ---
 Radhika P.D. Lab Instructor Diploma
Ms Rajitha K.R. Lab Instructor Diploma
Ms Harshitha Devadiga Lab Instructor Diploma
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONICS 
ENGINEERING
BE and PhD Programmes
Vision
Excel in Electrical Engineering Education and Research.
Mission
1. Provide and maintain an environment designed to ensure quality Electrical 
Engineering Education.
2. Design and deliver add-on curricula to existing VTU syllabus to ensure 
compatibility with National and Global needs.
3. Provide H

--- CHUNK 193 ---
olistic Personality Development of the students through interaction 
with Industry, Academia and Alumni.
4. Consolidate state-of-art laboratories for Teaching and Research Activities.
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO 1:  To develop necessary skills in students for successful careers through 
rigorous   education and appreciation for the life-long learning needed 
to maintain   competency.
PEO 2: To provide students with the solid foundation in mathematical, scientific 
and electrical en

--- CHUNK 194 ---
gineering to analyze data and extract relevant information 55 
for application to product design and pursue higher education. 
PEO 3: To train students with good scientific and engineering breadth, including 
proficiency in software language and use of latest software tools so as to 
comprehend, analyze, design and create novel products and solutions to 
current problems.
PEO 4: To inculcate in students professional and ethical attitude, effective 
communication skills, teamwork skills, multidis

--- CHUNK 195 ---
ciplinary approach, and 
an ability to relate engineering issues to broader social context.
Program Outcomes (POs)
Engineering Graduates will be able to: 
1.  Engineering knowledge:  Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, 
engineering fundamentals, and engineering specialization to the solution of 
complex engineering problems.
2.  Problem analysis: Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze 
complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first 
pri

--- CHUNK 196 ---
nciples of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences. 
3.  Design/development of solutions: Design solutions for complex engineering 
problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified 
needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the 
cultural, societal, and environmental considerations. 
4.  Conduct investigations on complex problems: Use research-based 
knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis 

--- CHUNK 197 ---

and interpretation of data, and the synthesis of information to provide valid 
conclusions. 
5.  Modern tool usage:  Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, 
resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and 
modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the 
limitations. 
6.  The engineer and society:  Apply reasoning informed by the contextual 
knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the 
consequent resp

--- CHUNK 198 ---
onsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice. 
7.  Environment and sustainability: Understand the impact of the professional 
engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate 
the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development. 
8.  Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and 
responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice. 56 
9.  Individual and team work:  Function effectively as an individual, and as a 
memb

--- CHUNK 199 ---
er or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings. 
10.  Communication: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities 
with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able 
to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make 
effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions. 
11.  Project management and finance:  Demonstrate knowledge and 
understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply 

--- CHUNK 200 ---
these 
to one’s own work, as a member and a leader in a team, to manage projects and 
in multidisciplinary environments. 
12.  Life-long learning:  Recognize the need for and have the preparation and 
ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context 
of technological change.
Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs)
Electrical & Electronics Engineering Graduates will be able to:
PSO1:  Make use of modern simulation software & hardware tools and techniques 
to analyze, prese

--- CHUNK 201 ---
nt and solve Electrical Engineering problems.
PSO2:  Develop entrepreneurial skills through Industry-Institute interactions by 
activities related to personality development and financial management.
TEACHING STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Dr. Sheryl Grace Colaco Professor B.E., M. Tech, PhD, MISTE
Dr Sanath Saralaya Associate Professor 
& HOD
B. E., M. Tech, PhD
Dr. Subramanya Assistant Professor B.E. M. Tech, PhD
Mr. Sathisha K. Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech., MISTE 
(PhD)
Ms. Bharat

--- CHUNK 202 ---
hi A. Rao Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech, MISTE 
(PhD)
Mr. Ajithanjaya Kumar 
M.K.
Assistant Professor BE, M. Tech, MISTE (PhD)
Mr. Deepesh Kanchan Assistant Professor  BE, MTech, (PhD)
Ms. Divya K. Pai Assistant Professor B.E.,  M. Tech
Mr. Franco Aldrin J 
Menezes
Assistant Professor B.E. M. Tech., (PhD)57 
Mr. Rolen Lionel Rodrigues Assistant Professor B.E. M. Tech. (PhD)
Ms Chaithra Shetty Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech. (PhD)
Ms Himani Kishan Raj Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech
Ms M

--- CHUNK 203 ---
adhavi Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech, , (PhD)
Mr Joysun D'Souza Assistant Professor B. E., M. Tech, (PhD)
Dr Narasimha Pandit Adjunct Professor B. E., M. E, PhD
TECHNICAL STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Mr Maxim D’Souza Foreman BE
Ms Priya A. Lab Instructor Diploma
Mr Raghu R. Lab Instructor Diploma
Ms Shailaja B. Lab Instructor Diploma
Mr Melwyn Prakash Miranda Technician ITI
DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
BE and PhD Programmes
Vision
To impart technical education and nurture research

--- CHUNK 204 ---
 in Civil Engineering to meet the 
needs of the society.
Mission
1. Deliver curricula for students to meet the local, national and global demands 
of industry, society and research.
2. Strengthen the skills of students through interaction with industry.
3. Promote research and consultancy in all aspects of Civil engineering.
4. Provide skilled training in emerging aspects of design and construction.
5. Develop in students and staff the spirit of innovation and professional ethics.
Program Educat

--- CHUNK 205 ---
ional Objectives (PEOs)
PEO 1:  To impart to students in depth knowledge of Civil Engineering subjects 
to solve practical problems using modern techniques.
PEO 2: To develop in students the ability to plan, analyze, design and construct 
structures from the foundation to the superstructure level with cost-
effective design methods.58 
PEO 3: To develop in students the ability for successful careers as entrepreneurs 
and to pursue research.
PEO 4: To enable in students the ability to identify is

--- CHUNK 206 ---
sues related to the 
environment and find suitable solutions.
PEO 5: To train students to understand the ethical responsibility of Civil 
Engineering profession and apply relevant code for engineering 
practice while delivering service to the nation.
Program Outcomes (POs)
Graduates of the Civil Engineering program are able to
1. Engineering Knowledge:  Apply the basic knowledge of mathematics, 
science, engineering fundamentals, and Civil engineering to solve complex 
engineering problems. 
2. 

--- CHUNK 207 ---
Problem Analysis:  Identify, formulate, research literature, and analyze 
complex engineering problems in reaching substantiated conclusions using 
first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.
3. Design/ Development of Solutions: Design solutions for complex engineering 
problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified 
needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety and the 
cultural, societal and  environmental con

--- CHUNK 208 ---
sideration.
4. Conduct investigations:  conduct investigations of complex problems 
using research based knowledge and research methods including design 
of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the 
information to provide valid conclusions. 
5. Modern Tool Usage:  create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, 
resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and 
modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the 
limitati

--- CHUNK 209 ---
on.
6. The Engineer and Society:  Apply reasoning informed by the contextual 
knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the 
consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice. 
7. Environment and Sustainability: Understand the impact of engineering on 
society and demonstrate awareness of contemporary issues. 
8. Ethics: Understand the professional and ethical responsibilities. 
9. Individual and Team Work: Work in a team of core comp

--- CHUNK 210 ---
etence or 
multidisciplinary teams.
10.  Communication: Communicate effectively in both verbal and written forms. 59 
11. Project Management and Finance: Understand the values of life-long 
learning.
12.  Life-long Learning: Apply financial and project management skills in their 
professional ventures.
Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs)
PSO1:  Explore domain knowledge in order to solve real-time field challenges, 
and to pursue research in novel areas of Civil engineering.
PSO2:  Qualify in the co

--- CHUNK 211 ---
mpetitive examinations and succeed in obtaining 
opportunities in the public and private sectors. 
TEACHING STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Dr Yajnheswaran B. Professor & HOD B.E., M. Tech, PhD
Dr ESTR Chandra Sekhar B. Associate Professor B. Tech, M. Tech, PhD
Dr Nishitha Jevita D'Souza Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech, PhD
Dr Prakash K.G. Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech, PhD
Mr Govinda Krishna Assistant Professor BE, M. Tech (PhD)
Mr Manjunath B. Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech  (PhD

--- CHUNK 212 ---
)
Mr Sachin U. Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech 
Mr Chitharanjan M. Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech 
Mr Ajeeth B. Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech
Ms Pranamya K. Assistant Professor B.E., M. Tech. (PhD)
Ms Aswathy C.M. Assistant Professor B. Tech, M. Tech., 
(PhD)
Ms Sinchana K. Adjunct Faculty B.E., M. Tech.
TECHNICAL STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Ms Pooja Lab Instructor Diploma
Ms Chaithra Lab Instructor Diploma
Mr Preethesh Lab Technician ITI60 
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS
BE and PhD Pro

--- CHUNK 213 ---
grammes
TEACHING STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Dr. Rajesh Kumar P.C. Professor & HOD B.Sc., M. Sc, PhD
Dr. Vincent Crasta Professor B.Sc., M. Sc,  PGDCA, 
PhD, MISTE
Dr. Rajesh K. Associate Professor B.Sc., M. Sc.,  PhD
Ms. Olivia Sequeira Assistant Professor B. Sc, M.Sc.
Ms. Venita Navya Monteiro Assistant Professor B. Sc, M.Sc.
Ms Anarghya S. Lecturer B. Sc, M.Sc.
Mr Anuragh B. Lecturer B. Sc, M.Sc.
TECHNICAL STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Ms Asha Pushparaj Lab Staff PUC
DEPARTMEN

--- CHUNK 214 ---
T OF CHEMISTRY
BE and PhD Programmes
TEACHING STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Dr K. Jyothi Professor & Head B.Sc., M.Sc., PhD, MISTE
Ms Pramila Rita D’Souza Assistant Professor B.Sc., M.Sc., MISTE (PhD)
Ms Prathima S. Assistant Professor B.Sc., M.Sc. (PhD)
Ms Sheethal Tresa Fernandes Assistant Professor B.Sc., M.Sc. (PhD)
Ms Smitha Maria D'Souza Assistant Professor B.Sc. , M.Sc. , B.Ed. (PhD)
Ms Deepika K. Lecturer B.Sc., M.Sc.
TECHNICAL STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Mr Nataraj Devad

--- CHUNK 215 ---
iga Lab Assistant B.Sc. 61 
DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS
BE and PhD Programmes
TEACHING STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Dr. Jagadeesha B. Professor & HOD B.Sc., M. Sc., PhD 
Dr. Ramananda H.S. Professor, Registrar & 
Dean-Student Welfare
B.Sc., M. Sc., MISTE PhD
Dr Shubha V .S. Assistant Professor B. Sc., M.Sc., PhD
Dr Venkatesh Babu K. P. Assistant Professor B. Sc., M.Sc., M. Phil. 
PhD
Ms. Aleyamma George Assistant Professor B.Sc., B. Ed, M.Sc.
Ms. Prathibha K.N. Assistant Professor B.Sc., M

--- CHUNK 216 ---
.Sc.
Ms. Sabina Rachana Crasta Assistant Professor B.Sc., M.Sc. (PhD)
Ms Salma Shabnam Assistant Professor B. Sc., M. Sc.  (PhD)
Mr. Harsha A.J Assistant Professor B.Sc., M.Sc. (PhD)
Ms Lauline Margaret 
D'Souza
Assistant Professor B. Sc., M. Sc. 
Ms Soumya S. Assistant Professor B. Sc., M. Sc. 
Ms Shivani S. Assistant Professor B. Sc., M.Sc., B. Ed
Ms Veena Menezes Assistant Professor B. Sc., M. Sc.
Ms Prajna K. Assistant Professor B. Sc., M. Sc. 
Ms Glevina Crystal Pinto Lecturer B. Sc., M. Sc

--- CHUNK 217 ---
. 
TECHNICAL STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Ms Pratheeksha Lab Instructor Diploma in CSE
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
MBA & PhD Programmes
Vision
To impart quality management education to bring out competent, socially responsible 
and conscientious professionals.
Mission
1. Imparting contemporary curriculum and its application to business situations.62 
2. Developing proficiency through continuous industry-academia interface and 
research.
3. Encouraging entrepreneurship and ventu

--- CHUNK 218 ---
re development.
4. Sensitizing the students towards the needs of society.
5. Inculcating diligence through extra-curricular activities.
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO 1:  Graduates will be able to apply the theoretical concepts in real-life 
situations. 
PEO 2:  Graduates will be able to communicate effectively think critically and be 
able to manage interpersonal relationships.
PEO 3:  Graduates will be capable of starting entrepreneurial ventures.
PEO 4:  Graduates will be able to c

--- CHUNK 219 ---
ater to the needs of the society.
PEO 5:  Graduates will be able to adapt to a constantly changing environment.
Program Outcomes (POs)
At graduation, SJEC MBA Graduates will have the following outcomes:
PO 1: Apply knowledge of management theories and practices to solve business 
problems. 
PO 2: Foster Analytical and critical thinking abilities for data-based decision 
making. 
PO 3: Ability to develop Value-based Leadership ability. 
PO 4: Ability to understand, analyse and communicate global,

--- CHUNK 220 ---
 economic, legal, 
and ethical aspects of business .
PO 5: Ability to lead themselves and others in the achievement of organisational 
goals, contributing effectively to a team environment. 
Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs)
PSO 1:  Foster Soft Skills to support industry requirements.
PSO 2:  Develop entrepreneurial capabilities for entrepreneurship and venture 
creation.
TEACHING STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Dr Prakash Pinto Professor & Dean B.Com, MBA, M.Com,  
MA (Philosophy), PGDIM, 


--- CHUNK 221 ---
PGDFM, PhD63 
Dr Anjali Ganesh Professor B.Com, M.Com,  MBA, 
PGDHA, DMLT, PhD
Dr Babitha Rohit Associate Professor BBM, MBA, PhD 
Dr Shakila B Associate Professor B. Com, M. Com, M. Phil. PhD
Ms. K Manjula Assistant Professor B.Com., MBA  (PhD)
Ms Acharya Chitralekha Assistant Professor B.Sc., MBA  (PhD)
Mr Roopesh Assistant Professor BBM, MBA. (PhD)
Mr Nandan B.K. Assistant Professor B.Com. MBA
Mr Ananth Alias Rohith 
Bhat P.
Assistant Professor B.Com, MBA, (PhD)
Mr Cherian Xavier Assistant Pr

--- CHUNK 222 ---
ofessor BCA,MBA
Ms Deepthi Dinesh Assistant Professor B.Com, MBA
Mr Nelson Marwin 
Fernandes
Assistant Professor B. Com, M.Com., (PhD)
Dr Ajaz Ahmed Adjunct Professor B.Com, M.Com, M. Phil, PhD 
Dr Madhukar S.M. Visiting Faculty BBM, MBA, PhD
TECHNICAL STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Ms Shreedevi G. Devadiga Lab Instructor Diploma
DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER APPLICATIONS
Vision
To be recognized as a department with a research environment empowering computer 
professionals with a strong sense of 

--- CHUNK 223 ---
service and human values at the core.
Mission
1. Inculcate professional behavior with strong ethical values and innovative 
research capabilities among faculty and students.
2. To meet the global needs and challenges through training of professionals who 
can work with interest to support the society.
3. Encourage faculty to have continuous progress in their teaching skills and self-
development.64 
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
On successful completion of the program, the graduates will

--- CHUNK 224 ---
 be able to: 
PEO 1:  Have appreciation for, Professional and Ethical responsibilities through a 
strong commitment to values.
PEO 2:  Acquire essential fundamentals and adopt techniques and skills to critically 
identify, formulate and solve computational problems.
PEO 3:  Effectively design, develop and manage computer applications, using 
modern tools and techniques.
PEO 4:  Develop confidence for self-education and innovative entrepreneurship.
 
Program Outcomes (POs)
Graduates will have the

--- CHUNK 225 ---
 ability to:
PO1:  Apply knowledge of mathematical, algorithmic, and computing principles.
PO2:  Analyze and interpret data, make inferences from the resulting data and 
apply technical skills to solve real time problems
PO3:  Design a system or module, to meet desired needs, which undergoes 
various phases of software development lifecycle.
PO4:   Investigate, design and conduct experiments, by applying critical thinking 
to solve complex problems.
PO5:  Make effective use of modern tools and t

--- CHUNK 226 ---
echniques to develop a software 
system.
PO6:  Inculcate Professional and Ethical attitude.
PO7:  Understand the need for, and have an ability to inculcate quality, timeliness 
and continuous improvement.
PO8:  Develop managerial skills in multidisciplinary approach.
PO9:  Prepare technical documents and make effective presentation.
PO10:  Design and construct a system, component or process to meet desired 
needs, within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental and 
social sustainab

--- CHUNK 227 ---
ility.
PO11:  Develop teamwork, and leadership skills necessary to function productively 
and professionally to undertake a common goal.
PO12:  Develop as an Entrepreneur in the software domain through innovative 
approach.
PO13:  Work on research activities.65 
TEACHING STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Dr. Hareesh B Associate Professor & HOD BIT, MCA, PhD
Dr Ananda Rajendran Professor B. Sc., M.Sc. PhD
Ms Sumangala N. Assistant Professor B.Sc., M.Sc., 
PGDCA, (PhD)
Mr Sathyendra Bhat J Assi

--- CHUNK 228 ---
stant Professor &  
Head-Training & Placement
BCA., MCA (PhD)
Mr Gururaj S Assistant Professor B.Sc., MCA (PhD)
Mr Sunith Kumar T. Assistant Professor B.Sc., MCA
Mr Murari B.K. Assistant Professor B.Sc., MCA, M. Tech
Ms Rakshitha P. Assistant Professor BCA, MCA
Ms Amita Roshan Vakil Assistant Professor BCA, MCA
Ms Jayashree M Assistant Professor BCA, MCA
Mr Brill Brenhill Assistant Professor BCA, MCA
Ms Nishmitha J. Assistant Professor BCA, MCA
Ms Prakriti Bhandary Assistant Professor BCA, MCA
M

--- CHUNK 229 ---
r Nitheesh Kumar B.S. Assistant Professor B. Sc., MCA
Ms Priyadarshini P. Assistant Professor B.Sc., M. Sc., (PhD)
Ms Shruthi K. Anchan Lecturer B. Sc., MCA
Ms Aishwarya R. 
Acharya
Lecturer B. Sc., MCA
TECHNICAL STAFF
Name Designation Qualification
Ms Divya Sujith Kumar Lab Instructor Diploma (CSE), BCA
Ms Divya P Lab Instructor Diploma
Ms Riola Rebello Lab Instructor BCA
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION
Name Designation Qualification
Ms Vaneesha V . Rodrigues Physical Education Director B.Com.

--- CHUNK 230 ---
 B P Ed, 
MPES
Mr Sudheer M. Asst. Physical Education 
Director
B.A., B. P. Ed., M. 
P. Ed.66 
HUMANITIES
Name Designation Qualification
Ms Deepa H.Y . Lecturer - Kannada BA, B.Ed., MA
Ms Savitha Jeevan Lecturer - Kannada MA
Ms Reshma V . Lecturer - English MA
Ms Aishwarya J. Lecturer- CIP BA(L)LLB, LLM
Ms Namitha Shetty Lecturer -Biology B.Sc, M.Sc
DEPARTMENT OF TRAINING & PLACEMENT
Name Designation Qualification
Mr Sathyendra Bhat J Placement Officer BCA., MCA, (PhD)
Ms Prashma Veigas Junior A

--- CHUNK 231 ---
sst. Clerk BCA
Ms Divya Juliet Fernandes Junior Asst. Clerk BA
Mr Wilson Jerald Mascarenhas Attender cum Driver PUC & DL
IDEA LAB
Name Designation Qualification
Mr Praveen George D’Souza Lab Technician ITI
Mr Deekshith C. H. Lab Technician ITI
Ms Chaithra Lab Instructor Diploma
HEALTHCARE & COUNSELLING 
Name Designation Qualification
Dr Prasanth Raj Medical Officer MBBS
Ms Jyothi Floret Pinto Staff Nurse GNM
Ms Preetha Aroza Campus Counsellor BA, MA (Psychology)
LIBRARY
Name Designation Qualific

--- CHUNK 232 ---
ation
Dr Felcy D’ Souza Librarian B.Com, B.L.I.S, M.L.I.S,  
PhD
Ms Gloria Jacintha D’ Souza Library Asst. B.A, B. LISc
Ms Prima Lobo Library Asst. B.A, B. LISc, M. LISc
Ms Thara Library Asst. B.A, B. LISc, M .LISc67 
Ms Geetha Library Asst. B.Com, D. LISc
Ms Preethi Library Asst. B.A., B. LISc, M. LISc
Mr Sandeep Shettigar Library Asst. BSW, B. Lib. Sc.
Mr Rithesh D’Souza Jr. Library Asst. B.A., B LISc
Ms Seema Fernandes Junior Asst. Clerk B.A, PGDCA
Mr Anila Kumar Yerabovi Attender PUC
Mr Shar

--- CHUNK 233 ---
an Steevan Lobo Attender PUC
Mr Nithin D'Souza C. Security PUC
HOSTEL STAFF
Name Designation
Mr Francis D'Costa Warden - Boys Hostel
Mr Herald Sunil Britto Assistant Warden - Boys Hostel
Mr Felix Santhumayor Assistant Warden - Boys Hostel
Ms Zeena Maria Fernandes Assistant Warden- Girls’ Hostel
Ms Flavy Veera Lobo Assistant Warden- Girls' Hostel
Ms Jacintha Menezes Assistant Warden- Girls' Hostel
ADMINISTRATIVE & SUPPORT STAFF
Name Designation Department
Mr Rakesh Thomas Lobo H R Manager HR
Mr. 

--- CHUNK 234 ---
Conald Saldanha In-charge  HR
Ms Felcy D'Souza Secretary HR
Prof John E. D'Silva Chief Administrative Officer Administration
Ms Diana Maria Monteiro Collaborations Officer Administration
Ms. Hema Fernandes Secretary Administration
Ms. Sushma Clara Monis Secretary Administration
Ms Shailaja Mariette Noronha Secretary Administration
Ms Nishma Mascarenhas Junior Asst. Clerk Administration
Ms Divya Lobo Junior Asst. Clerk Administration
Mr. Menin Paul Monteiro Accounts Officer Accounts
Ms. Vineetha 

--- CHUNK 235 ---
Monteiro Junior Accountant Accounts
Ms. Sharani Monteiro Junior Asst. Clerk  Accounts
Mr Paterson D'Souza Junior Asst. Clerk Accounts68 
Ms Shalet Saldanha Office Superintendent Admission Office
Ms. Juliet D’Souza Senior Asst. Clerk Admission Office
Ms Savitha Lobo B. Junior Asst. Clerk Admission Office
Ms Melisha Sony Pinto Junior Asst. Clerk Admission Office
Mr Ison Renzil Madtha Junior Asst. Clerk Admission Office
Ms. Charlette D’Souza Jr. Asst. Clerk COE Office
Ms. Precilda Janet Lobo Sr Ass

--- CHUNK 236 ---
t. Clerk / Secretary E & C
Ms. Priya Sweedal Crasta Junior Asst. Clerk Deans' Office
Ms Lavita Olivia D'Souza Junior Asst. Clerk E & E
Ms Lencita Seema Veigas Junior Asst. Clerk Basic Science
Ms Laveena Roshal Miranda Junior Asst. Clerk CSE
Ms Preema D'Souza Junior Asst. Clerk Mech
Ms Joselyne D'Souza Jr Asst Clerk ICBS
Ms Minisha Flavy Crasta Junior Asst. Clerk MBA
Ms Vazita D'Souza Junior Asst. Clerk MCA
Ms Edna Deepthi Castelino Junior Asst. Clerk Civil
Ms. Jovita Shaina D'Souza Junior Asst. 

--- CHUNK 237 ---
Clerk  Civil
Ms Jenita Jenifer D'Souza Junior Asst. Clerk COE Office
Ms Laila Sumana Pinto Junior Asst. Clerk COE Office
Mr. Sudhir Pinto In - charge Stores Maintenance
Mr. Cyril Periera In-charge Maintenance
Mr. Satish Bhat Electrical/Plumbing 
Technician
Maintenance
Mr. Sunil D’Souza Electrical/Plumbing 
Technician
Maintenance
Mr Alwyn Saldanha Electrical/Plumbing 
Technician
Maintenance
Mr Deepak Kumar Shettigar Electrical/Plumbing 
Technician
Maintenance
Mr Vishal Flywan Fernandes Electrical

--- CHUNK 238 ---
/Plumbing 
Technician
Maintenance
Mr Wilson Kiran Menezes Electrical/Plumbing 
Technician
Maintenance
Mr Minin Anton D'souza Welder Maintenance69 
Mr. Rajendran K.V . Security / Transport Officer Transport
Mr. Praveen D’Souza College Bus Driver Transport
Mr. Surendra Shetty College Bus Driver Transport
Mr Prabhakara College Bus Driver/
Mechanic
Transport
Mr Ramachandra Shetty Driver cum Attender Transport
Mr Chidananda Driver cum Attender Transport
Mr Ivan D'Souza Driver cum Attender Transport
M

--- CHUNK 239 ---
r Vincent Coelho Driver cum Attender Transport
Mr Umesh B.G. Driver cum Attender Transport
Mr Rajesh S. Attender Phy Edu
Mr. Arokiasamy Attender Administration
Mr Sebastian D'Souza Attender Administration
Mr. Wilson D’Souza Attender  Admission Office
Mr. Anil Wildon Pinto Attender CSE
Ms Asha Laveena Flores Attender MCA
Mr. Ashoka K.M. Attender E & C
Mr. Alex Ashok D’Souza Attender Mathematics
Mr Franklin D'Souza Attender Mechanical
Mr. Lakshman Moolya Attender Chemistry
Mr Liston Anthony D'Souz

--- CHUNK 240 ---
a Attender / Driver ICBS
Mr Rohan Sebastian D'Souza Attender MBA
Mr John D'Souza Attender E & E
Mr Vinod Joyel D'Souza Attender Civil
Mr Rohan Mascarenhas Attender cum Driver Administration
Mr Lakshmeesha Attender Physics
Ms Anitha Sweety Mendonca Attender CSE
Mr Manoj Furtado Attender COE Office
Mr John Joseph Fernandes Attender COE Office
Mr Lionel Christopher D'Mello Sound Engineer Melodium Studio70 
NOTE72 


